Unbearable schlock . Kim Basinger adopts her sister's child , a little girl who turns out to be the Second Coming or something . Jimmy Smits is the FBI investigator called in on the case when the girl is kidnapped by Rufus Sewell and his gang of thugs . They run an outfit called The New Dawn . It poses as a self-help program but is really a Satanist church . It's all mechanically slapped together with multiple borrowings from " The Exorcist " and " Omen " and their devolved descendants . Everything is predictable except that which is completely arbitrary . Hordes of skinless rats come and go without explanation . Angels appear as fuzzy balls of white light . Gargoyles sometimes fill the sky . Sometimes not . The performances by some of the talent are okay . Basinger doesn't do badly , for instance . But nothing could save this piece of unspeakable crap . Rufus Sewell , as the Satanist-in-Chief , has these goggle eyes . He's so exopthalmic that the whites completely surround the irises . And if he blinks even once during the entire film , I must have missed it because I was blinking at the same time . It's not worth going on about . How do the kids put it ? Oh , yes . " It sux . "
I don't know why they had to tap Henry James ' novel , " The Turn of the Screw " , to get this plot together . The writers could have knocked off a one - or two-sentence treatment : " Mad woman hires out as nanny and harasses her two young charges to death . " James ' story , and Jack Clayton's adaptation of it in 1963 , are full of ambiguity . This version isn't . Leelee Sobieski is okay , as are the other performers . Sobieksi has the advantage of not being a star in the Hollywood sense , but an actress instead . Her figure is a little shapeless and her eyes , with all that black liner , too close together , and in this wintry English setting , her pallor against the snow gives her face the appearance of a charcoal sketch . She's the kind of woman a discerning man might find himself staring idly at , while standing next to her in the supermarket checkout line , and slowly realizing - - " Gee , she ain't too homely . " Her beauty is insinuating , and she's quite good in the role . The problem isn't with her , it's with the script . Tara Fitzgerald as Mrs . Grose has a tough job - - projecting sensuality undercut by a touch of the sinister . The two kids are alright , but they are , after all , kids . But never mind all that . The screenplay and direction bungle the task . Where to begin . The direction has a lot of arty touches , none of them original . Three figures in black silhouette skip along the top of a snowbank against a washed-out winter sky . Lots of cross-cutting during critical scenes . Intrusive flashbacks to Sobieski's youth , incomprehensible much of the time . ( Okay , she's suddenly a little girl oscillating on a park swing and she looks back over her shoulder and smiles at the camera and - - wham - - we're back in the present . ) These arty effects - - done with accomplished camera work , though - - deteriorate quickly into every cliché from the horror movie script guide . Guttural , animal sounds in the middle of the night , coming from nowhere . An intense electrical storm in the midst of winter , straight out of a B horror movie . Shock cuts accompanied by stings on the sound track . Before the movie is half over , Sobieski is already creeping around holding a butcher knife . Child abuse is hinted at . Lesbianism is shown . Graphic but brief nudity . ( Too brief . A little gratuitous sex might have helped . ) The monster's POV shots , where there be no monster . My attitude may be warped because Clayton's " The Innocents " was superb . It stuck pretty close to Henry James . James ' Mrs . Grose was not the dominatrix she is here ; she was an unimaginative old housekeeper . There is absolutely nothing in this version to compare with the scene in the garden in Clayton's movie , in which Deborah Kerr and the child watch a repugnant black beetle crawl out of the mouth of a marble cherub . Out of the mouths of babes ! But not here . If Deborah Kerr as the governess may have been slightly delusional , perhaps prompted by her attraction to her dismissive employer , Leelee Sobieski is frankly loco . In the earlier movie Kerr first merely senses the two ghosts - - Quint and Miss Jessel - - and then glimpses them from afar . The closest Kerr comes is when she enters an elongated empty classroom and thinks she sees Miss Jessel weeping over the desk at the other end . Miss Jessel disappears as Kerr approaches , but Kerr finds a fresh teardrop on the desk . The " evil " that the ghosts represent is never made clear . Here , it's the sexual abuse of children . Ho hum . I don't know why they bother to remake films that were so good in their original form . I really don't . How about a remake of " Citizen Kane " with Tom Cruise ? No ? " Gone With the Wind " with Keanu Reeves and Brittany Spears ? I've got it - - " On the Waterfront " with Rob Lowe and Paris Hilton .
Maybe someone else can find something other than clichés in this movie but I couldn't . I generally enjoy airplanes-in-trouble movies . By their very nature they're pregnant with suspense and raise all sorts of questions , like , " What the hell are we doing up here at 37 , 000 feet ? ? ? " This is the kind of movie that " Airplane " parodied 25 years ago , except that I'm not sure " Airplane " did a better job of sending up the genre than " Rough Air " does . There's a scene in " Airplane , " for instance , in which a trembling flight attendant confesses to another her fear that the airplane and everyone on it is doomed . Then she adds , " And also I'm twenty-six years old and not married yet , " and breaks into sobs . In this movie a cargo door blows out , decompressing the fuselage and taking part of the tail assembly off . The airplane is a wreck . It shudders and lurches and will never make Keraktovic , Iceland , or whatever it is . ( It's not Reykyavik , and Shannon and Prestwick are portmanteaued into Shanwick . ) The airplane is falling apart piece by piece . And two flight attendance are whispering together aft . One of them has had an affair with the pilot and smiles as she describes the experience . " I had hoped for a family . All the usual things . Then one day he just left . And that was all . It's over now . Of course he was - - great ! " The other leans forward conspiratorially and asks , " Great ? " They are about to die and they're discussing how good Eric Roberts is in bed . Roberts is the co-pilot who has had to take over when the captain goes nuts , although Roberts himself is under a cloud for a previous pilot error . ( He was really innocent . ) Two of the braver passengers are in the luggage compartment trying to block the hole in the fuselage with heavy baggage . ( Why ? I don't know . ) It's a dangerous job . They could be sucked out at any time as they struggled with the crates and trunks . One of them is a murderer being taken to prison . ( All airplanes have handcuffed murderers aboard , accompanied by a cop who fails in his duty . ) In the midst of their exertions , the other passenger asks why the criminal did it . The two of them must shout over the howling slipstream and screaming jet engines . Still , the murder stops hustling the baggage and explains his motives . " He stole everything from me . My wife . My money . My life . I felt all empty inside . " He completes the dangerous task , which will help save the airplane , and is sucked out to answer to a higher authority . There's also one of those passengers who carries a lot of authority , some kind of high muckamuck in Global Circumcisional Airlines or something , and he makes a pain out of himself , bullying other , demanding to know what's going on , and generally getting in the way of things . I missed the kid , though . I mean the child that's always on these stricken aircraft . Sometimes they need a kidney transplant . Sometimes a rare type of blood transfusion . Sometimes they suffer from peanut allergies . But they're always sick . I missed the kid . Maybe that's why this movie is so unsatisfying . I burst into a torrent of tears when I heard the flight attendant say that it was all over between her and the pilot . ( This was just before she told the joke about the difference between a stewardess and a jet engine . ) I wept abjectly when the murderer poured out his tale of woe . But I could have flooded with tears this abandoned railway car that I live in - - if only that sick kid could have been aboard and have her life saved . I'm - - I'm sorry . I can't go on . I'm choked with an unidentifiable but overwhelming emotion the chief symptom of which is nausea .
In the original " Poseidon Aventure , " ( 1972 ) we saw something original - - a handful of survivors exploring an upside-down ship , searching for an exit through the exposed bottom . There was something eerie and unsettling about seeing familiar surroundings vertically reversed . The men's urinals and the toilets hung from the ceiling , the galley ranges still with their gas flames lighted and burning overhead . I didn't see the next remake or sequel or whatever it was ( 1979 ) but I did make it halfway through this one and it isn't even fun to look at . A view doesn't get a sense of being in a capsized ship but instead in a giant junkyard with mammoth objects strewn about . Disorder , yes , but not insanity . Whatever small poetry there was in the original is lost in this dumb remake which is no more , really , than a special effects extravaganza . We've come a long way in the 35 years since the original was made and nobody is more aware of that than the people who put this monstrosity together . If there were any gruesome reasons for death left out in 1972 , that's taken care of here . A huge generator plummets through the deck overhead and takes out Kevin Dillon , the wisecracking , drunken villain ( a figure absent from the first version ) . Dangling cables electrocute passengers spectacularly . Fried bodies float about in the water . The editing is lightning fast . The cuts that may ordinarily be measured in units per minute must here be measure per second . The target audience was weaned on computer games , MTV , and CocoaPuff commercials . No acting can be discerned among the cast of slightly past-their-prime professionals like Kurt Russel and Richard Dreyfuss , nor among the inexpensive younger cast members , but then none is called for . Any auditions must have called for not much more than an agonized scream . I kept waiting for something to happen , something human I mean , something besides gushing water and underwater people banging on stuck hatches . Why didn't the babes at least remove their hampering outer garments if they're going to swim through all that sharp , entangled garbage ? They had the good sense to do that in the original . And if Stella Stevens in the original had something on besides her underwear , at least there were Pamela Sue Martin and that blond in short shorts . Here ? Not a chance . If you're into untrammeled sea water , noise , quick cuts , screams , and heroic children you might want to watch this . Or - - and this might be more constructive - - take a shower . Actually , when they make the next remake , I hope the rogue wave catches the ship and tears it apart at once , drowning or disarticulating everyone aboard . The movie will then be five minutes long .
I guess someone reckoned it was time to resuscitate the " Death Wish " movies that began in 1974 , but the similarly title " Death Sentence " had to be updated , and for good reason . This is not the late 60s or early 70s when urban crime rates were triple what they'd been just a few years earlier . The dangers of urban life were very real . Statistics don't begin to tell the story . In the neighborhood I lived in , adjacent to the University of Pennsylvania , every Mom and Pop store , every shop , had been held up at least once , with the owners " looking down the barrel of a shotgun , " as one tough old lady put it . The deli owner kept a loaded gun under the counter . The liquor store would periodically acquire one or two bullet holes through its plate glass window . I knew girls who had been raped twice on campus . I was burglarized three times . Every building was decorated with graffiti . Now THAT is a crime wave that Charles Bronson could fight . The muggers and vandals and robbers were anonymous . The threat lay over the city air like an acrid odor . But the young men responsible for that disorganization were baby boomers in their prime . They're now in their 50s and 60s , so things have quieted down . Donc , the writers must now make the story personal . The son of an executive , Kevin Bacon , is killed in a gas station robbery by one of those integrated gangs one so seldom finds in real life . Pursuing a lead he sniffs out , Bacon confronts one of the gang , who is accidentally killed . Seeking revenge , the half dozen other goons ( all Goth skinheads dressed in black and sporting tattoos of barbed wire on their faces ) make several attempts on Bacon's life and finally wound him , kill his wife and shoot their other son . Bacon stumbles out of the hospital and buys four guns from an illegal dealer . There is a final shoot out between Bacon and the gang in an abandoned hospital or something . Guess who is the lone survivor . Kevin Bacon is a far more versatile actor than Charles Bronson was but it doesn't make any difference here . I couldn't identify all the ripoffs that made up this thing of shreds and patches . In addition to " Death Wish " , there's " Dirty Harry , " of course . Bacon buys a huge , stone-heavy magnum . " Guaranteed head remover , " comments the dealer . The climax is almost , but not quite , a shot-for-shot remake of " Taxi Driver " . Bacon is even wounded in the neck from behind . The gun-buying episode is ripped off from the same source - - Bacon fondles the guns and practices with them like Robert DeNiro - - but without the style or the wit . Implausibilities abound . The white-collar executive deliberately attacks and takes out an armed and brawny skinhead , beating the crap out of him and finally killing him . One of the gang marches into Bacon's office and thrusts a package into his hands , snarling , " This is to let you know that you won't die alone . " Bacon stares at the rudely wrapped box for a moment , then sets it on his desk and proceeds to open it . Would you do that ? It's a brutal movie and its ugliness is enhanced by the photography , which uses techniques I don't have the vocabulary to describe . All the images are tinted , mostly a ghoulish green , like a garter snake's belly . Some are blood red . The images are sharply defined so that we can easily make out every whisker stippling a man's chin , every bead of sweat during tense moments . A wide angle lends is used for some close ups , turning the face into that of a malign dolphin . Gun freaks should love it , and so should kids of about , oh , say fourteen , plagued by high testosterone levels . Maybe there are a lot of them around because the user rating is pretty high . If there is a market demand , we should prepare ourselves for " Death Sentence II " and all the rest of the crap that degrades our screens these days .
I know what the story is supposed to be because I've read about it . But although I knew the frame , I couldn't identify any part of the contents . I gather that this was intended as a serious attempt at art . For those of you who associate Japanese art with articulated paper cranes , polished lacquer bowls , finely made swords , and paintings of fractal ocean waves - - forget it . Nature got lost somewhere along the way . If this film were a state of human consciousness , it would be thoroughly deranged due to the blossoming of some genetic time bomb or the imprudent use of a substance made entirely of indole rings . I couldn't follow it and neither could you . But you have to admire its inventiveness . For decades now , film has struggled with some way of presenting sexual contact between human beings that is suggestive rather than explicit . You know , a cut to a fireplace or pounding surf . When that became a too-recognizable cliché , the movies gave us unidentifiable body parts in motion , the anonymous fingertips caressing the anonymous spine . A horizontal kiss more feverish than most . Here , every technique of indicating sexual contact that you ever saw is thrown together , along with a couple that must be brand new - - even during the same encounter . New techniques ( new to me anyway ) include the upside-down camera , the rotating camera , the fiber optic photograph of a condomized fist entering a body cavity ( seen from the inside ) . And instead of the usual moans and gasps signifying an unspeakable pleasure , we have electronic beeps and boops on the sound track , accompanying what sounds like a doll's voice saying , " Center , prease " , and " me . " The movie's linguistic messages are half in English and half in Japanese . The visual message is in tongues . I can't remember a second in which the images on the screen were still . Usually , both the figures and the camera move at the same time . And the camera makes extensive use of fish-eye lenses , so when the figures bow to the lens they seem to fall in our laps . This is the most hyped-up soft-core porn imaginable , all lurid colors and zip lines and printed sentences clacking out across the screen and addressed to the viewer - - " You are special visitor . Come backstage . " ( Right . ) Most special visitors will zoom from dazzlement to boredom in roughly twenty minutes , depending on age , confusion threshold , and exactly how deeply they've delved into the mushroom omelet .
Skilled professionals live it up in an exotic and dangerous location . They get drunk every night . They smuggle opium . They drop pigs in parachutes . They fly under impossibly hazardous conditions . They dress weird and act weirder . They're iconoclastic , outrageous . They violate every rule of command and have contempt for their employers at the CIA . They're irreplaceable . Nope . It's not " Only Angels Have Wings " and it's not " MASH . " It's an uneasy mixture of the two that unfortunately comes across as more silly than funny . It aims at shock , amusement , and education , but doesn't really achieve its goals . As far as its shock value is concerned , well , we're inured by now , aren't we ? Does it really shock anyone that a bunch of hard-living pilots flew secret missions in Laos in the 1970s ? No , it's not shocking . It's not even educational now , under our current circumstances , when it would be interesting to learn that some paramilitary excursion was NOT buried in a file labeled National Interest , Defense de Toucher . That's okay . So we've been wised up a little and are no longer neither so shockable nor so dumb . The problem in this case is that the film depends on those very qualities for its power to amuse . Without that , the film implodes . A group of shaggy drunken CIA pilots are sitting around in a cat house , goosing the girls , shooting out the lights with a silenced pistol , killing lizards with same . Asks newbie pilot Robert Downey , Jr . , " When you guys act like this does it mean there's something to celebrate ? " Replies another , guffawing , " No , it means it's night time . " That might be funny if we expected renegade pilots to be as upright as the rest of us . If we don't , the gag , like the movie , falls flat . There are action scenes naturally . Everything that can possibly happen in or to an airplane in flight happens in or to an airplane in flight . People fall out of them , baggage is thrown haphazardly out of their hatches , engines fail , they sustain damage from AAA , the are torn apart during crash landings , but we've seen most of this elsewhere , often done better . Some might find this funnier than I did , and the acting is pretty good . Robert Downey Jr . is especially effective as the straight man . Check out the other comments and if they describe a film that you might find appealing , then by all means watch it . There might be some laughs in it that escaped me .
Ava Gardner returns from Chicago to her little home town of Ashburn . We're never made sure of the reasons . But she takes up with her old boy friend , George Raft , a semi-sot who seems to do nothing more than play nickle-and-dime poker and is supported by his doting mother . Raft is still in love with her evidently because he throws over his new girl friend who promptly dies of natural causes . Gardner's affections aren't exactly steady . A sharp exchange with Raft over something or other and she turns to Podunk's Mister Big , Tom Conway , who runs a fancy club , the Flamingo , and has lots of money , a pencil mustache , and a suave British accent . For much of the rest of the film she wafts back and forth , prompted by the slightest of gestures or perhaps by pheromones yet undiscovered . That's the central weakness of the whole movie - - motivation . From the very beginning , we don't know why Gardner decided to return to Ahsburn . Nor what attracts her to the wooden and ordinary-looking Raft . We don't know why Raft's friend , Victor MacLaughlin , your basic friendly bartender , is plotting one minute to rob and kill Tom Conway with Raft's help . That plan fizzles out because Raft doesn't do his part , for some reason having to do with Gardner's figuring it out intuitively . We don't know why , the next minute , MacLaughlin wants to be Conway's best friend and help Conway patch up his differences with Raft . MacLaughlin was perfectly willing to murder the guy a little while ago . And so it goes . The plot meanders from scene to scene , leaving ox-bow lakes behind , each incident linked to the others only by their shared ambiguity . Ambiguity is okay in its place but it must be augmented by something else - - some directorial style or an admirable display of acting talent or epic sweep . ( Think of the ambiguity in " Lawrence of Arabia . " ) But " Whistle Stop " has no such compensations . MacLaughlin is bulky , sounds dumb , and is sometimes photographed in close-up with a wide-angle lens that turns his face into something resembling a sea turtle with baggy eyes . Raft is simply Raft , a proletarian whose face seems to develop cracks when he's forced by the script into an agonizing smile . Ava Gardner is difficult to criticize . Her performance may be the best of the bunch although it hardly matters since she's so stunningly beautiful in a conventional way . A little less glamorization from the make-up department wouldn't have hurt . Actually , Gardner was from a one-horse town herself , Smithfield , North Carolina . The town has built a tiny , slightly shabby museum in her honor . It's a poignant tribute . Gregory Peck has visited the place . But , as for the movie itself , it doesn't work very well . " Clash by Night " had a similar story but serves as an illustration of what might have been accomplished with a little more effort and more talent .
This is a pretty routine crime drama involving narcotics in New York . The SS Florentine docks and unships a crate of medical dope but instead of dope there is nothing but sand in the crate . The purser has stolen it , with the complicity of one of the passengers , a Miss Toni Cardell . Two Treasury agents , Scott Brady and Richard Rober , latch on to the case and track the dope through a network of heavies and murderers led by Yul Brynner . They succeed with the help of the U . S . Coast Guard and at the cost of Brady's life . Right away , though , I had a slight problem in that nobody anywhere is named Miss Toni Cardell . It's the kind of echt-schiksa name that somebody might dream up because it sounded right , like " Ellie Arroway " in Carl Sagan's novel , " Contact . " But just try to find a name like Toni Cardell in a phone book , especially in Shanghai . I dare you . Secondly , the crate carrying the dope is opened by customs agents . It's a big crate , the size of a wardrobe , and it's filled entirely with sand . A reasonable inference is that a LOT of dope is missing , yet when the box of narcotics is finally discovered in a locker at Grand Central Station , it's only big enough to contain , say , three dictionaries . Those , of course , are minor things . Yet this is a minor movie . It's a routine track-'em-down mystery with T-men putting themselves in danger by posing as somebody else . Scott Brady is okay . He's an Irishman with Burt Lancaster's habit of sticking out his jaw in a defiant scowl when he's angry . It's rather likable . His partner , Richard Rober , on the other hand , has practically nothing to offer , a bland , acceptably handsome contract player . He's the one who should have been knocked off early on , allowing Scott Brady to continue the chase . Best performance , hands down - - Yul Brynner with hair as the Vladimir Putin look-alike who heads the whole operation . What a background the guy had . A Jew from Sakhalin Island off the Siberian coast , a stint at the Sorbonne in Paris , a trapeze artist . " The King and I " brought him fame but left him socked into a domineering and unsubtle persona . Here , he gives his most earnest performance . He's suave , handsome , delicate even . And - - this being 1949 , the year when the Cold War became an undeniable fact - - his Russian accent fits the temporal template . He's better here than he ever was later . But , taken as a whole , what we have here is an inexpensive Eagle Lion crime drama with self-sacrificing heroes and ruthless villains . Nice to see the Coast Guard in action . Even if , to pump up the action , the writers and Lazlo Benedict , the director , have Brynner shooting his snub-nosed revolver at an 83-footer armed with a 20 millimeter cannon on the bow . Diverting , yes , but not much new .
The point of Wolfe's original novel - - indeed the point of the whole story - - is that things take place because of a carefully calculated sense of expediency . The goal is survival within a particular kind of life style . The novel is full of malice . The only relationship that rings emotionally true is that between Sherman and his daughter , Campbell , and that's only touched upon . That aside , everyone is out for what he can get in the way of publicity , power , money or self aggrandizement . Wolfe was criticized for hitting every character and every social segment of New York City over the head . His response was a denial . After all , he lived in New York himself and belonged to a neighborhood improvement committee and other admirable organizations , exactly the qualifications one would want on his resume in order to deny that he disliked New Yorkers . ( Wolfe has a PhD in American Studies from Yale and is no dummy . ) Those supposed weaknesses are what made the novel memorable . Nobody was any good . And Sherman McCoy wound up broke , a professional protester for social justice . The movie throws all of that away and imposes a moral frame on the story that simply doesn't fit . Wolfe did his homework . The novel was rooted in reality . Every event was not only possible but thoroughly believable . Wolfe might have made a great cultural anthropologist - - he knows how to get inside a system and record its details . Yes , any of us might have found ourselves , as Sherman and his mistress do , stuck in the South Bronx , threatened by a couple of black kids , and making a getaway after bumping into one of them . That scene is transferred neatly from print to celluloid . But after that scene the movie seems not to trust its audience and at times become frantic in its attempt to spell out its message , however nebulous the message is . Sherman might accidentally hit some kid and be arrested for it as he is in the novel , but he would not immediately upon his release from jail go back to his phenomenally expensive condo , take out a shotgun , and start shooting into the ceiling with it , as he does in the movee . In what's supposed to be a funny scene , ceiling plaster falls all over the party guests and they scurry away , shrieking . It simply would not have happened . The movie has left the novel's unspeakably detailed reality in the dust . Wolfe's sensibility , the work he put into capturing the real , has been lost . What we get instead is a noisy , fantastic , and silly scene that doesn't do anything except wake the audience up . Similar empty scenes follow , screaming out for Wolfe's verisimilitude . The movie also fails because it thrusts a lot of sin and redemption into an entertaining story of moral nihilism . Here we see " Don Juan in Hell " at the opera . We get lectures on redemption from a poet with AIDs . We see a lot of guilt in Sherman . A black judge who preaches from the bench and gives one of those final speeches about how we all have to start behaving nicely again . A reporter who feels sorry for Sherman after turning him into a sacrificial lamb . And a happy ending in which Sherman gets off by breaking the law with an idiotic grin . The scene sits on the movie like a jester's cap on a circus elephant's head . The movie not only makes points that are already trite and unoriginal , it overstates them , as if the audience were incapable of absorbing any subtleties . It's not the acting or the direction that's poor . The film's not bad in those respects . And the photography is pretty good too , including two rather spectacular shots - - the gargoyles of the Chrysler building and the landing of the Concorde . It's the script that is thoroughly botched . The first half of the movie , roughly , is okay in conception and execution . It keeps some of the little details from the novel . Sherman and Judy's dog is named Marshall . Who the hell would name a dog Marshall ? It loses its focus almost completely in the second half and on the whole is barely worth watching . Wolfe's cynical redneck right-wingism may be offensive to a lot of people , but he's got the cojones to lay his percepts out . Alas the writers and producers did not have the courage to pick them up and thus blew the chance to make a fascinating study of New Yorkers .
Strikes me as routine , as far as TV movies go . I can believe that it's based on a true story because the plot seems too clumsy to have been written by anyone with storytelling skills . For instance , good old John Ritter ( now a rather bulky and bearded villain ) poisons his wife enough to make her ill , then accuses her of being psychosomatic and leaves to marry another young woman immediately . Fourteen years pass before the story picks up again . Why fourteen years ? I would guess that though the narrative doesn't demand it , history does . Some of the particular scenes , however , are so cinematically apt that they were almost certainly dreamed up by a writer . Pawing through her attic , Helgenberger , Ritter's first wife , stumbles across an old electrical appliance and has one of those black-and-white flashbacks with stings on the score - - suddenly she recalls when , fourteen years ago , she discovered Ritter shaving selenium filings from a rectifier , carefully collecting them , and putting them in her shampoo and her eyelash liner ( or whatever it's called ) . Later it develops that he was putting it into her coffee as well . Frankly , I don't believe it . I don't believe either that she had that particular epiphany in the attic or that Ritter put selenium shavings into her shampoo or eyeliner . Selenium is referred to in the movie as a " toxic metal " and I suppose it is , in sufficient quantity , but it's also an anti-oxidant that's sold over the counter in drug stores and swallowed . Someone will have to demonstrate - - as no one does in this movie - - that it is a topical poison . Many people have tried the nicotine patch and failed . So how come some selenium in her shampoo gives Marg Helgenberger immediate and drastic headaches ? And her eyes become as painful as boils when she applies makeup ? I think the anthropologist E . B . Tylor called this simple-minded idea " sympathetic magic , " but I'm not sure . Mais je divage . Anyway Ritter evidently tries the same stunt with his second wife fourteen years later , although no evidence of trickery is ever produced when she becomes ill with the same symptoms . Wife Number Two is taken to Mexico and apparently cured but suddenly drops dead shortly after her return . Circumstantial evidence piles up against Ritter , who plays the villain with all the stops out - - when his first trial is dismissed he SMIRKS at Helgenberger , who has prompted the investigation . You see , Helgenberger was good friends with Ritter's second wife and was terribly disturbed at her demise and its manner . ( I'll bet . ) And she wants to prevent the same thing from happening to the wealthy young woman who seems lined up for third place in Ritter's marital schedule . ( Sure . ) The best performance is given by the guy who plays Detective Mauser - - Lawrence Dane ? Everyone else acts by the numbers . They project emotions and thoughts with the subtlety of a warning at a railroad crossing . But Dane does little things that are original . " I'm told you want to report a murder . ( Long pause while he sits down and waits ) , then abruptly thrusts his face towards Helgeberger and inquires in a reasonable and curious voice , " So who was murdered " ? I suppose except for the bare bones of the historical events , nothing prevented characters or their actions from being drawn differently than they were in real life . I mean , what the heck , Ritter is still in jail convicted of murder and Helgenberger's character is dead , so who is to object ? I wish the forensic stuff had been made clearer . Ritter seems to have used so many poisons and toxic metals - - let me see , selenium , cyanide , a massive dose of chlorine , and maybe something else - - that I was confused by it all . Not that I was rooting for Ritter . Here's a mathematician with a Ph . D . who insists people call him " doctor . " He even corrects people who address him merely as " professor . " Most Ph . D . s get that narcissistic problem behind them very quickly . " Jes ' call me Whitey , even though I know how to get a standard deviation and you don't . " Average TV fare .
There's a certain novelty value in the sight of three jet skis chasing one another up and down the flooded hallways of an abandoned high school during a flood at night . And that's about it . We have thieves led by Morgan Freeman trying to find the money in a small inundated Indiana town that was removed from a stranded armored truck . The surviving armored truck driver is trying to escape from the thieves who want to force the location of the hidden fortune from him . He picks up a sympathetic young girl along the way . There's also a sheriff and one or two pals who don't help much . Now the concept is that this town is being flooded , you see , and we have these three groups trying to find each other . That's the concept . The problem in realizing this concept to to squeeze as many clichés into the story as possible , and to wedge some queer sights into it . They had plenty of previous movies to borrow from . It is , after all , " Titanic " except that instead of a ship sinking we have a town being covered by rising water . Same thing . People locked into a jail cell will be drowned , the same as people jammed into a ship's compartment . The usual conventions of action movies are followed . If somebody dies his death is forgotten in a moment . Under stress , people trade wisecracks . There is an old-fashioned shotgun-wielding couple who won't give up their property and are supposed to provide some chuckles but they don't . In the end though - - after all the chases , after the guns are drawn from underwater and immediately fired , after the boat crashes , the electrocutions , the Olympic-length underwater swims - - in the end , the film is really thought provoking . Here's the thought it provokes . " Morgan Freeman , would you mind telling us what the hell you're doing in a picture like this ? "
" Traffic " was a well done film , clear in its ambiguity , and ending with a small and ironic victory after a string of defeats . There were few heavies - - most people were in the grip of self interest . Less effort went into this production . I missed most of the first part but the texture of the flick is apparent from what I caught . The most surprising and effective part is the location shooting . For a Lifetime Movie , this is unexpectedly grimy . It ends with a shootout in Newark in the rain . Well , considering that it's Newark , I guess we can't say that the location is especially dirty . The rest of it is probably above average for a Lifetime Movie and below average for what it attempts to be - - the expose of a shocking trade in illegal goods , namely human beings . Southerland is fine . He's aging nicely . Mira Sorvino doesn't belong in this part . The structure is confusing in a way that " Traffic " is not . And the plot is more like a James Bond movie . It gives us a ring of human traffickers with a lot of organization and a single heavy sitting on top - - a kind of Doctor No or Blofeld - - who is killed off at the end . ( He takes 94 bullets - - I counted . ) Perhaps worst of all , it takes a problem which undoubtedly exists ( name a vice that doesn't ) and PREACHES at us for neglecting it ! The problem needs to be carefully studied and , as far as I'm aware , it never has been . Surely pretty young people wind up in some sort of sexual slave trade , but I would guess that they are mostly kidnapped from ( or sold by ) families on starvation diets in third-world countries . Few of them are likely to be beautiful Russian models or preadolescent girls from vacationing middle-class American families . And it's impossible to imagine why it would be necessary to trick and brutalize women from all around the world just to have them wind up in a whorehouse in Newark , where hookers are already a glut on the market . ( Offhand , I would expect to find a lot of Africans , Afghanis , Indians , and possibly Chinese girls among the kidnapped . ) But , to be sure , I don't know the dimensions of the problem . No one possibly can at this point . So the outcry of mass rage that the movie inspires is not yet justified and , even if it were , has no target yet . There's another feature film floating around on TV that follows the kidnapping selling of the president's daughter , no less , and winds up with her rescue at Dubai , UAE . That movie uses our new enemies as heavies - - the Arabs . This one uses a tried-and-true heavy - - the Russians , cashing in on sentiments left over from the Cold War . German heavies seem to be fading away , along with people who remember World War II . It's remarkable , the way political winds sway our fictional narratives . " Red Riding Hood and the Big Bad Iranian " , anyone ?
In Ambrose Bierce's story , " The Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge , " a man with a noose around his neck is pushed off the bridge for execution . The rope breaks and the man escapes . He laboriously makes his way home before feeling a great pain in his neck and dying . The whole thing was a dream between his stepping off the bridge and his reaching the end of his rope . That , basically , is the story here except that instead of an execution we have a multi-car accident on the Brooklyn Bridge . " Basically , " that is , the story lines are similar - - but man are the " executions " different ! Bierce's story was a straightforward fantasy . But what razzle-dazzle in this film . Note the splendidly arty effects . Whew . Enough to knock your socks off ! No wonder the list of f / x contributors and consultants and CGI Meisters is twice as long as the cast . I'd like to be able to say I really got a kick out of it because , obviously , a great deal of work went into its construction , but I frankly found it nerve wracking . Dreams , the sex ones aside , tend to be irritating , puzzling , and scary . And this film is all of those things . On top of that , although all dreams that I'm aware of assume a first-person point of view , this one is a dream seen from someone ELSE'S point of view . In other words the dying man sees himself in his dream through someone else's eyes . A patient ( Gosling ) reveals to his psychiatrist ( McGregor ) that he's going to kill himself in 24 hours . The rest of the film has McGregor dashing around all day and all night , trying to help him , in a way my psychiatrist never did ! ( What is his bill going to look like ? ) To ensure our confusion shots are repeated numerous time , sometimes in sequences lasting a second or two . Explosions and sparks . The threat of gun play . A blind man miraculously cured who doesn't seem the least bit curious about how it was done . Somebody's parents who may or may not have been murdered and may or may not be alive . Cameras turn upside down . Actions speed up . The cables of the magnificent Brooklyn Bridge turn into spider webs . Strange characters come and go , uttering non sequiturs . It rains a lot . McGregor's girl friend ( Watts ) is solicitous but can she be trusted ? ( Trusted to do what , you ask ? I don't know . ) After all , she took two razor blades into the bathtub with her in case , after she cut her wrists , she became weak and dropped one of them . We don't get to see her in the bathtub , though , alas . That double razor blade thing was pretty bizarre , but then almost everyone in this movie is hostile or frankly daft as the doctor goes about trying to do good . And the doc seems nuttier than a fruitcake himself . At the end , as Gosling lies dying or dead on the pavement , surrounded by wrecked cars and concerned onlookers , we see among the faces most of the important characters that the doctor has run into during his search . Here's the face of the manager of the book store . And there's his aid . And a Chinese cop . And a black guy who was reading Hamlet . All strangers to one another . ( There are multiple allusions to Hamlet , though their relevance escaped me . ) The movie cheats , actually . Dreams don't flash and spin . They're often ominous but often sluggish and boring too . And you can't READ anything in a dream because , who knows , your cortical bombardment is selective . Another thing about dreams is that they're supposed to STOP when you wake up ( or die ) , whereas the team here simply can't give up its tricks even after poor Gosling has passed . The camera seems to twirl about whimsically and the hell with anybody's point of view . I didn't even truly care about Goslin's being killed , although I wish he hadn't . I didn't get to KNOW him well enough to be thoroughly bonded with his character . I was happy , though , that he went out the way he did . As the red blood cells in his brain yield the last of their oxygen , his head is being held by passerby Naomi Watts who is leaning over him , holding his temples , almost in tears , begging him , " Look at me ! Look at me ! " Okay , I'm looking .
To tell the truth , Shakespeare isn't really easy to follow , what with his tangled syntax , his poetry , his puns , his arcane lexicon . But Anthony Hopkins , I think , did a splendid job . I managed to buy this one by mistake , through clumsiness , and it just isn't the same . The actors don't seem to speak slowly enough , I guess , and Iago seemed miscast , no Derek Jacobi . But , heck , the sound on this DVD was so lousy that no one could overcome that obstacle . And this is an inexpensive production , looking very much like a stage . I'm not convinced that Shakespeare is so hot that even a misplaced production like this is worth much attention . It's not like the Lord's Prayer or anything , suitable for all occasions . As much as I hate to say it , I'm afraid that Olivier and his elaborate extravaganzas have got practically a lock on the material . It's not just the production values either - - the blaring trumpets , the real live horses , the period costumes . It's Olivier's performances . He speaks slowly enough in , say , " Hamlet " to understand his every word , though we may not know its exact referent in the real world . And when he speaks quickly , as in much of " Richard III " , he still manages to articulate each juncture . His pauses are precisely timed . And , by God , anybody who can turn the half-mythical but ever-filthy Richard into a clown has got my vote . Hopkins ' version of Othello was splendid . As someone said , " he has the kindest EYES . " Now THAT was the tragedy of the Moor . This version is just a tragedy .
Preston Foster as the cop who wants his reputation and his job back is human enough , but as for the rest - - what a line-up of heavies . Neville Brand going chubby and coarse . Jack Elam of the chameleon eyes . And Lee Van Cleef , New Jersey's contribution to heavydom , along with Bruno Richard Hauptmann . And there's not an ounce of ambiguity or humanity among them . They're pure e-vil . The film itself , while in no way evil , is unfortunately not so hot . Phil Karlson has left some unexpected gems among the dross - - " Phoenix City Story , " " Walking Tall . " But this isn't one of the gems . Aside from the limitations imposed on it by a small budget , this B movie lacks finesse . Every other shot is a gigantic looming closeup of somebody's sweaty , greedy face . It's pretty violent for a 1952 film though . During one of the many scuffles it appears that two of the guys get punched in the jewels . John Payne isn't bad . He's just unremarkable , along the lines of , say , MacDonald Carey . You can't object to him because there's nothing really there to object to . Colleen Gray has sparkling eyes and tiny red lips that can suddenly explode into a dazzling smile . Her chirpy voice moves in leaps and bounds . Often , when she says " going to " and " you " , they come out as " gonna " and " ya " . She's utterly charming . I don't care if she IS a lawyer , she's still winning . The story is complicated , improbable , and full of holes . The script is no help whatever . A robbery takes place and Payne , who knows nothing about it , is interrogated by the police . They beat hell out of him for two days . Then , finding out that he was set up for a frame , they tell him they know he's innocent and let him go . Nevertheless , he's fired from his job . The first thing he does is run to an old buddy asking for help because " I've got to clear myself . " Clear himself of what ? He can't have much money because his job was driving a flower delivery truck , yet he spends a good deal of money tracking down the robbers , following them to a raffish Mexican town . The transfer to the DVD I saw was lousy and maybe this has influenced my judgment of the film itself . It looked like it was a kine scope copy , filmed directly from a TV show . Someone else might like it more than I did . I didn't find it hateful , though , just unengaging .
I kind of enjoyed this although it meandered all over the place and its characters were as lugubrious as the weather of the Canadian coast where the film was shot . It's extraordinary how little laughter is to be found in this sullen setting . Oh , there's sarcasm . Some of the characters trade wisecracks , but nobody laughs at them . By my count , there was one laugh . Or , rather , a brief , maniacal snort from a totally deranged serial killer , a woman , sounding like Natalie Wood's nervous snort . Nobody - - and I'm really thinking hard here - - nobody even SMILES except the two lunatics and , as I say , only ONE of them laughs . The film weaves together into a slightly uneasy plaid three unrelated stories . First , there is the serial killer business . Jane Adams is the female partner of this murdering yuppie couple and she's great . She has these wide and unblinking eyes - - not like a deer caught in the headlights but more like the headlights themselves . And she's always mincing around in these expensive slips . One of them is chocolate colored . I never even knew they MADE chocolate-colored slips in Singapore . When Tom Selleck , as the local police chief , first visits them as part of an innocent inquiry after the first body is found , the couple are amiable and sympathetic . So Selleck immediately leaps to the conclusion that they " did it . " Credo quia absurdum . Second , there has been a gang bang involving a 16-year-old high school girl who refuses at first to squeal on her attackers because they threaten to release naked pictures of her to the press . The three high-school jocks who raped her are real sleazebags too . The most brutish of them is caught by a short , black policewoman smoking some grass in the boy's room . He blows smoke in her face , makes some contemptuous remarks , and brusquely brushes her aside , in return for which she maces him and puts him away . The young girl finally agrees to testify and the criminals suffer . Third , there is the underdeveloped relationship between Tom Selleck and the defense counsel for the rapists , Mimi Rogers . Their first meeting is hostile and lasts about twenty seconds . On their second meeting , a few nights later , Rogers calls on Selleck at his apartment , tells him she wants to get him into bed , hikes up her skirt and sits athwart his thighs . Then she gets up and leaves , saying , " Call me sometime . I'll get dressed up . " Now , this may strike an ordinary viewer as improbable , but actually it may be quite common . It happens to me all the time . The narrative wanders around , gloomy , slow , and unfocused . Yet I enjoyed it because it's interesting to see Tom Selleck suppress his " Magnum , P . I . " persona . Laconic , you know . Given to replies like , " yes " and " no . " He's an alcoholic . The reason we know this is that several people , including Selleck , say so . We never actually see him drunk . And when he decides to quit drinking , there is no change in his dour personality . But then there's something fascinating about serial killers , even fictional ones . They've been done to death in feature films , but that preposterous quality remains . We can understand why a person might want to murder his or her spouse or friend . They are the people whom we've put into a position to hurt us . But a total stranger ? These two lunatics make tapes of their victims before shooting them , and they choose them almost at random - - " He looks nice , " says Jane Adams about Selleck before they try offing him . The killers are complete blanks here . They have no backgrounds and no discernible motives . ( Selleck tells his subordinate to check every detail of their background but nothing comes of it . No results , and no LACK of results , is even brought up again . ) Overall , what a comment on human nature - - and climate .
We don't often get a chance to see Glenn Ford as a bad guy , but he's pretty nasty here . He's a mean German who finds a fortune in gold in the Lost Dutchman mine in the Superstition Mountains near Phoenix , Arizona . Carries a Sharp's carbine . Shoots comarades in the back . Torments women while watching them die of thirst . Snarls a lot . Speaks with an accent , or tries to . But then , come to think of it , nobody is any good in this movie . It has no hero . The narrator in the framing story , William Prince , is a contemporary , a grandson of Ford's . He's not exactly a bad guy , but he's certainly not a good guy either . He's given one of those hard-boiled narratives , ripped still quivering from the flank of a nearby film noir . " I figured I had it comin ' to me . Nothing ' else mattered . " That sort of thing . Ida Lupino sells her body for the gold . Gig Young pimps his wife . Will Geer smiles sardonically and wipes out people with his rifle . Everybody is corrupted and some die because of their greed . The lust for gold is disgusting and uncivilized . Where do I get some ?
In this one , Martin Landau , plays estranged identical twins who team up on the sly to knock off their rich uncle , Paul Stewart . Stewart , the old goat , plans to marry a new-age Julie Newmar who is half his age . I didn't mind so much seeing Paul Stewart die by batter mixer in his own bathtub , but throwing Julie Newmar out the window was unforgivable . The entire sequence of events isn't revealed until the end , which is an anomaly in the Columbo series . But of course Columbo , Peter Falk , is gifted with his usual second sight . The mere notice of a damp bath towel in the laundry hamper puts him on the right track . A TV screen that turns too purple at the wrong moment clinches it for him . And , as usual , the culprits crumble in the end before a positive molehill of suggestive evidence . Columbo's villains tend to have brains but no guts . He's his usual disheveled self - - cigar , rumpled raincoat , a man of infinite hesitations . He has comic encounters with the Martin Landau twin who is a television personality . Landau invites Columbo to leave the audience and come up and join him before the cameras in making hollandaise sauce . Columbo makes a fool of himself , but Landau laughs too loudly and so does the audience . The hilarity is forced and the incident is rather more silly than funny . ( See Columbo try to separate the yoke from the white ! ) The scene would have been far funnier if Landau had played it straight and the audience was permitted only the occasional snicker . It's the director's job to see this done . His most amusing encounters are with Jeanette Nolan as the housekeeper , the impeccable Mrs . Peck . You could perform surgery on the floors she's kept for thirty years for the horny old Paul Stewart character , and here comes Columbo , bumbling along , trailing cigar ashes , using a three thousand dollar silver dish as an ash tray , trying to fix Mrs . Peck's TV set only to pull off the knobs . It's not the best in the series , but it's early Columbo , when the ideas were still fresh - - Steven Bochco was the writer - - and overall it's an entertaining divertimento .
As action flicks go , this one's pretty typical . Arnold leads the usual band of expert musclemen into some tropical country on a mercy mission , or was it a mercenary mission , picks up a pretty young Latina ( Elpidia Carillo ) after a furious battle with well-armed swarthy guerrillas who make easy targets , and encounters a - - well , an alien , while on his way back to meet the chopper at the rendezvous . As Arnold pointed out at the time of release , you really get two movies for one . A regular excursion action flick and a science-fiction action flick . Boy , are these guys macho . ( One of them is one of those North American Indians with an intuitive , spiritual collective unconscious who senses when the thing is nearby . ) And they carry the ugliest guns ever seen on screen . It's the kind of " lost patrol " movie in which the characters get picked off one by one by an unseen enemy until , in this example , only Arnold and Carillo are left alive to hop on the chopper . The major difference between most examples of the genre and this one is that the other examples ordinarily take breathers and give the characters a chance to chat , so we get to know them a little . Not much time for that here . A coffee break would mean one less opportunity for the group to shred the banana plants with their slugs and grenades . The alien gave me a bit of a problem , I have to say . Here he is , all decked out in high-tech equipment including a helmet that gives his vision infra-red capabilities . ( He presses Arnold's head up against a tree and examines it carefully through this heat-registering device and you can tell what great shape Arnold is in because his nose is cold . ) He's also got some kind of rocket launchers built into his arms and carries some strap ons that enable him to heal quickly or , failing that , to set off an atomic explosion . All of that high-tech stuff didn't bother me . But his organic evolution hasn't seem to have kept up with his technology . Okay , he's got opposable thumbs . Thank heaven for small favors . And he's bipedal . But that's about it . How do you design and build delicate equipment like that when your fingers end in claws ? And when he removes his helmet we see that his mouth is surrounded by four maxillapods , crab-like claws that can serve no other purpose than to shovel food into his diminutive mouth . They've invented space travel but not the fork ? Finally , his hair is made up into dreadful dreadlocks , which looks pretty retro from our perspective . What's this alien doing here anyway ? " He comes when the summer is hot , " Elpidia intones . ( A sissy after all . ) He seems to be a trophy hunter . He skins the people he kills but then seems to do nothing with the body except burn it so he can add the skull to his collection . He fawns proudly over those skulls . Does he show any other values aside from the desire to kill other living beings and preserve their heads as trophies ? What I mean is , does he have any NON-HUMAN traits ? Well , actually no . While they are being pursued , Elpidia drops a weapon and Arnold stops her and says , " No ! He didn't gill you befawh because you vair unahmed . " Later on , though , he shows no such compunction about deciding to kill a wounded and unarmed Arnold . Then , too , when challenged directly by Arnold at the end , the alien unburdens himself of his technological accoutrements and faces Arnold hand to hand , raising the question of whether they have Roy Rogers movies on the place from whence the alien came . If you're a fan of action movies , Arnold , earth-bound science fiction , or any combination thereof , catch this one if you haven't seen it yet .
It's never been clear to me what a film noir is . A treacherous woman ? The traditional iconography of black sedans and snub-nosed revolvers ? Black and white ? Seedy surroundings or exotic ones ? Murder or grand larceny ? Revenge ? Charlie Chan had all of them . This one would seem to have all the proper elements though . Here is Dick Powell , who gave a good performance as Philip Marlowe in " Murder My Sweet . " A . 38 and a . 45 caliber pistol . Rhonda Fleming , a femme than whom no one is more fatale . A semi-comic sidekick in Richard Erdman . Good old Los Angeles setting , and well chosen too . Fine noir title . Yet the whole thing just doesn't jell . If film noir has anything , it has two basic elements , as Alain Silver pointed out - - dramatic photography and unusual camera placements . This has neither stylistic element . It's shot mostly during the daytime and Robert Parrish , an intelligent guy , has shot it as the straightforward unraveling of a mystery surrounding a double cross . You could substitute Cagney and Bogart and you'd have a typical , inexpensive Warner Brothers ' gangster movie from the 1930s . Dick Powell looks good in his neatly tailored suits and flat-brimmed fedora . He gets to drive a two-ton Nash as well . He's just been released from the slams after serving five years for a robbery he did not take part in . But , man , is he expressionless . When he makes a wise crack or is supposed to be sad , his face takes on a look of agony , as if trying to rearrange its own musculature is a colossal effort . And the script doesn't help him . The hospitalized Erdman asks about his , Erdman's , girl friend . " What about Doreen ? How bad is she ? " Powell : " As bad as she can get . " William Conrad gives a stereotypical performance too but it is probably the best one because , cliché or not , the evil fat man is invariably a colorful role . Think of Sidney Greenstreet . Regis Toomey as the cop with whom Powell has a suitably ambivalent relationship looks like General George Marshall . In fact , I'm not entirely convinced they're not one and the same person . Let me put it this way . Have you ever seen the two of them in the same room together ? And the end , such as it is , kind of collapses in on itself . There isn't the expectable shootout . The villain doesn't twist around and fall from the roof with a splash . There is no clinch followed by a dissolve . Instead , after learning the true story from an unwitting Fleming , Powell tells her they're leaving for Timbuctoo and tells her to pack . Then he walks out , spills the beans to the waiting police , and strolls away . I'm kind of making fun of it but I rather enjoyed it too . Everyone likes to see a puzzle solved .
I'd like to give this a higher rating . This is a first-rate cast to begin with , and every one of them delivers the goods . And I almost always know where the writer , Richard Price , is coming from , in his screenplays and his essays . ( Haven't read any of his novel . ) But somehow this disjointed story doesn't get pulled together . There are really two plots . Julianne Moore is a mother who claims her four-year-old son was taken away by a hooded black man . Moore is a working-class single Mom living in a mostly black project in some dumpy town in industrial New Jersey , whose projects ought to go the way of Pruitt-Igoe . Jackson , along with his partner Bill Forsythe , are cops investigating the case . Well , Moore is hysterical half the time and seems to be overacting the part of the desperate mother . There is a general sense among the residents of the project that she killed her own child and is blaming a black man , so we get a lot of threats and speeches from African-Americans who believe they're being set up . Jackson finds himself in the middle . The climax gives us a slow-motion battle between enraged black guys and the white helmeted cops who nettle them . That's plot number one . And they are being set up . Moore , as it turns out , returned to her apartment to find her son dead of a deliberate overdose of the cough medicine she'd been giving him to keep him quiet . With the help of a friend in the projects she buried the boy in the kind of densely wooded area where dead bodies tend to be discovered . Little by little the true story is squeezed out of her by Jackson and by a sympathetic but savvy social worker ( Edie Falco ) . Moore winds up lashing out and screaming and is put in the slams . That's the other plot , and it's more important than the first . Anyone expecting an action movie will be disappointed because this is not an action movie . It's hardly even a crime thriller or a police story . It's a character study , mostly of Julianne Moore's character - - and what a job she does . She seems to be wearing no makeup . And her face , which is not Hollywood glamorous to begin with , looks washed out and a little haggard . She has a broad jaw and thin lips . Her eyes are close together . And her nose , what there is of it , seems plopped on in a topological afterthought . She looks like a cartoon character who has just run face-first into a frying pan . Yet this lack of stereotypical beauty fits the part admirably . She radiates an inner intelligence . And there is a lengthy ( somewhat overwritten ) scene in which she must ramble on about what it means to have a child - - the rewards and the burdens . And she shows us the conflict between having a wind-up toy that will love you when you need it , and a whining crying kid who won't shut up and go to sleep . ( Get out the cough syrup . ) It's a long and demanding scene and she handles it with near perfection . In another noteworthy scene , the social worker , Falco , is trying to ease the truth out of the distraught Moore . Falco is telling Moore about another case in which a father took his son away . " I told him that I didn't want him to bring the child back . I just wanted to know if the child was alive or dead . He didn't have to speak . All he had to do was nod his head and give me a straight answer . Yes or no . Was he dead ? Just nod your head . Is he dead ? " And we realize that Falco is no longer talking about a hypothetical kidnapper but is speaking gently but directly to Moore . These are outstanding scenes and yet I felt the two subplots were cobbled together with staples . The black rage seemed to be there only to juice up a story which , it might otherwise have been argued , belonged on Lifetime Movie Network . And dramatic high points aside , the story does at times become sluggish . A curious but irrelevant search of an abandoned orphanage . The movie is about parent / child relationships . Jackson has a son of his own in the same prison that Moore winds up in . The dilapidated orphanage reeks of sewage and futility . The film certainly demonstrates Moore's range as an actress and , that aside , ought to prompt all of us to wonder if people should have babies before they're prepared to care for them . Not to be perfect parents , but to be what Freud would have called " the good-enough parent . "
Not entirely without interest , this is a rather dark story of Wendell Corey , an Assistant D . A . alienated from his wife and two children , who bumps into Barbara Stanwyck by accident and falls for her . They have a secret affair . Then Stanwyck's wealthy old auntie is shot and killed during a burglary and the evidence all points to Stanwyck , who is brought to trial . It seems like an easy case for the D . A . ' s office except that the records show that Stanwyck has been receiving phone calls from a man who continually identifies himself by different names . Corey's boss , Paul Kelly , calls him " Mister X " , and worries that the defense may introduce reasonable doubt using Mister X as the fomenter . Now , Corey is in an uncomfortable position , to say the least . He's assigned to try the case , convict his lover , and send her to the gas chamber . But he has all kinds of problems . Not only is he devoted to her , not only is HE the mysterious Mister X , but he believes Stanwyck when she tells him she's innocent . He winds up sending her notes , advising her on who to hire as defense counsel , and he sends her five thousand bucks to manage expenses . Corey also decides to bungle the case in as nuanced a way as possible . I ask you , the experienced viewer of old black-and-white crime dramas , is she innocent or is she setting up Corey as the fall guy ? Stanwyck is set free . And Corey discovers there is another man in the picture . There have probably been OTHER men , as well . If he is Mister X , there was first a Mister A , then a Mister B , and then . . . . Mister n . ( That's the way you denote a finite string of variables of unknown length in statistics . ) Stanwyck spills the beans to Corey . This is known as " cooling out the mark " . But she does a very clumsy job of it , leaving Corey in a state of humiliation and despair . Stanwyck has shown no remorse so far . But as she is driving away towards a new life with her Greaseball boyfriend behind the wheel , she decides to coagulate his eyeball with the car's red-hot cigarette lighter and , well , there is a fiery plunge off a cliff , and she winds up dying on a hospital bed . After she makes her final confession to Paul Kelly , she passes away peacefully , the vehicular catastrophe not having disfigured her in any way , her hair and make up impeccably done . Not even her false eyelashes have been disturbed . This movie must have been made after " Double Indemnity " because it follows the same trajectory , more or less . I much prefer the original , or even the remake , of " Double Indemnity , " but this isn't an insulting copy , only a less original one .
It's the depression and everyone is hard up except the very wealthy . ( Plus ca change . . . ) Ginger Rogers is a working girl forced to share an attic or loft with Norman Foster , an artist who refuses to take any money from the society matron ( Laura Hope Crews ) who pursues him . George Sidney is Mr . Eckbaum , the slightly frantic landlord who tries to keep everything going . He arranges it so that Rogers , who is a telephone salesgirl by day , and Foster , who has a job as a night watchman , never meet . Trying to keep the place " respectable , " you know . Well , the two roomies who don't know each other take a long time to meet . In the meantime , leaving nasty notes for one another and playing painful pranks , each comes to loathe the other . But - - guess what ! - - they meet accidentally outside their attic , assume false identities for different reasons , and fall for each other . This plot , I'm sure , goes back farther than " You've Got Mail " or " The Shop Around the Corner . " I honestly don't know how far back in the mists of ancient history it goes . When did they invent rentals ? It's a bit slow at first . George Sidney is funny , though , as the wisecracking Jewish landlord . His son Julius brings him a bowl of noodle soup for the famished Rogers but spills some on the carpet . " Ahh , next time I ask you for TWO bowls of zoop - - one for the lady and one for the carpet . " If you don't think that's funny , I ought to warn you that that's about as good as it gets . Robert Benchley is in it too , as the amorous boss of Rogers at the Icy Air Refrigerator Company , but his particularly Ivy League brand of humor may be an acquired taste . Except for " Foreign Correspondent , " come to think of it , where his non sequiturs were superb . Guinn ( Big Boy ) Williams also appears in the small role of a comic taxi driver . Foster isn't much of an actor but Ginger Rogers is delightfully piquant as a tough but vulnerable proletarian . She has a wonderful figure , which she gets to display , but her movements are stiff and no one could have predicted that within the next few years she would be a partner in the most famous dancing team in the world . Everything about the movie is smooth and logical and never rises above the level of " nice " - - slightly amusing , slightly warm , and with a happy ending .
SPOILERS . I'm trying to remember the story of Job . Let's see . God and Satan were having a conversation and God claimed he could test any believer without breaking him . I don't remember why he picked Job , a devout man , but , boy , did God test him . ( Woody Allan might ask why God didn't give Job a written exam instead . ) This is a kind of Job story . I began watching it because , frankly , I was hoping Mimi Rogers might uncover part of her magnificent torso but I stayed because I got caught up in this complex story of a rather simple belief system . Mimi is put to the test too . And there is a sort of cultish group thrown in , made up of people who have seen the light . What does the light look like ? According to the script it has something to do with a dream about a pearl . I am being a little vague on this point because the film is vague . ( Also I don't know how pearls figure so markedly in a mythos with a desert background . ) And the version of Christianity the film present us with is truly primitive . There are constant references to Jesus Christ , although the acts of God we witness reflect the temper of the angrier God of the Old Testament more than the merciful God of the New . How can you be saved ? It's easy . You love Jesus Christ and do whatever God orders you too . A reasonable person , as the spouse-swapping Rogers is at the beginning , might ask , " The Buddhists seem to get along without Jesus Christ , " and the Hindus and Moslems too , and the converted come right back with a smiling answer , " But they are not saved . " I guess that leaves out the Jews too , although Christians worship the same God , but only through an intermediary , and with different rituals . The movie was especially gripping when Rogers apparently has a vision in which she is to take her daughter to the desert and wait for the end of the world . She takes only the necessities - - no money and no food - - expecting the arrival of Gabriel and the rest at any moment . Her date stands her up . She turns more raggedy with each day and finally does something terrible and is brought to jail by a sheriff's deputy ( Will Patton in a sympathetic role for a change ) . Then the world ends with a minimum of special effects . Her daughter and Patton wind up in heaven , but Rogers is bitter about having been disappointed by God and evidently winds up spending eternity in Purgatory . That's it , folks . I don't know whose side the movie is on - - the born-agains who glow with the inner light of sanctimony , or people like Rogers who find that a God capable of such cruelty is not worth loving unconditionally . I suppose if Heaven is a good idea , it's better to surrender to God , especially if you're looking for an " exclusive neighborhood " to live in . Yet we're left admiring Rogers for having made up her own mind . She believes fiercely , first in God , and then in her distaste for Him . All the while I kept thinking that this movie deals with the kind of Big Issues that European directors are so fond of . I have a feeling that if it had been shot by the French , the story might have been very similar , beginning with all that ontological Angst , but that the central question would have dealt not with God but with Marx or Marcuse or somebody .
This kind of football is serious business . Oh , I know it seems silly for a group of Allied prisoners during World War II to sacrifice their chance to escape just so they can go back and whup the pro team of Nazis . A ridiculous fantasy . It's just a game , after all . But there seems to be something about what Americans call soccer that really gets the testosterone flowing . There have been several riots over the last decade or two in soccer stadiums , some with fatalities . And in 1968 , shortly after a three-game series between El Salvador and Honduras , we had the so-called soccer war between the two impoverished Central American countries . The armed forces were engaged . A C-47 flew over the enemy's lines , rolling 50 gallon drums and other ammunition out the door , hoping some of it might somehow explode . It would have been comic had not 2 , 000 people died , 8 , 000 been wounded , and perhaps 50 , 000 displaced . John Huston must have made this kind of movie for that kind of audience . It's one of his minor works and we don't get to see the director having any real fun putting it together . It's about a rag tag team of POWs thrown against a Nazi team and passing up their opportunity to escape in order to finish the game . ( Guess who wins . ) I gather that our team is made up of real-life soccer heroes . Even a provincial American has heard of Pele . Except for Rocky Balboa , who is the world's heavyweight boxing champion . Oh , and Michael Caine , whose paycheck couldn't have been of sufficient magnitude to compensate him for the waste of his natural acting talent in this movie . It's really not much more than a big soccer game climax grafted onto a standard POW escape movie . You ought to hear the Shastakovich-like heroic music when one of the teams wins . I'll bet that gets the old testosterone flowing , but I think I'll stick with those lines of wooden figures that kick a ball bearing back and forth on a table top . That way , if I have a chance to escape from prison , I can just say the hell with it and run away .
Albert Brooks , who wrote this and acted in it , is a Hollywood screenwriter who's being rejected with every script he submits . He lives in a mansion with his wife , Andie MacDowell , and is going nuts because he won't be able to support his family . A successful writer friend , Jeff Bridges , puts him in touch with a muse , a Greek spirit known for inspiring artists . The muse is Sharon Stone . And she is some work of art . She not only impinges on the lives of Brooks and his family . She takes them over . She has demanding tastes , grows quickly bored with the suite at the Four Seasons that Brooks is paying for . She has a whim of iron , sending Brooks out for Waldorf salad from Spago in the middle of the night . She's friendly towards Brooks ' wife and urges her to begin the commercial cookie-making career that she's discarded over the years . MacDowell follows Stone's advice and finds self-fulfillment before the oven . Meanwhile , Brooks is going nuts . He's spending money and time keeping Sharon Stone satisfied but he's getting very little inspiration out of her . An occasional , off-the-cuff suggestion - - that's all . Brooks develops a script based on her hints but reaches a block at the end of Act II , with his protagonist owning an aquarium and nowhere else to go . He presses her abjectly for an idea and she suggests that , since they must use drilling equipment to build the foundation for the aquarium , why not have them strike oil ? Right out of " The Beverley Hillbillies . " In the end , Stone turns out to be not a muse but a multiple personality who has escaped from a private psychiatric hospital in Ohio . Last time out , she was Picasso's daughter . Brooks of course is a neural shambles by now , but - - Lo - - Paramount buys his script and everything is fine - - except that the producer at Paramount turns out to be Sharon Stone in another disguise . There are a lot of cameos in the film , some easily recognizable , others not - - from Wolfgang Puck to Martin Scorsese who does a hilarious turn as himself , planning a remake of " Raging Bull , " only this time the guy is really THIN . " You see it ? Can you see it ? " Scorsese speaks faster than a normal person can think . Overall , it's mildly amusing , and that's about it . Nothing wrong with the professional players . Brooks is the anxiety-ridden middle-class character that he's perfected by now . Sharon Stone is seasoned . Andy MacDowell is beguiling . But the script is full of logical holes . This is okay in a comic fantasy , in itself , but there are so many of them here that they become noticeable . We can contrast " The Muse " with a comedy like " Groundhog Day " to illustrate when I mean . In " Groundhog Day , " with an equally preposterous premise , one thing follows inexorably from what has happened before , so the film DEVELOPS . That sense of inexorability is lacking here . If Stone is really not a muse at all , but just a psychiatric case with an occasional shopworn notion , then what are people like Scorsese and Ian Cameron and Rob Reiner courting her for ? And , shortly after she escapes from the doctors who have come to fetch her back to the institution , how does she suddenly show up as a producer at Paramount ? It's good for a laugh but nothing has set the situation up , so it's a shallow chuckle rather than the conclusion of any plot thread . It's like : A man walks along the street , slips on a banana peel , and falls on his bum . Ha ha , but so what ? Another instance : When he brings that Waldorf salad back to Stone's suite at night , she's lost interest in it and turns him away . Still holding the big bowl of salad , he backs into another hotel guest and crashes out of sight to the floor . We see the guest's face looking down as he asks , " Are you alright ? " Well , we already KNOW what the gag is going to be . But instead of keeping the camera on the guest's face and hearing only a moan from the floor - - or seeing Brooks ' salad-covered head very slowly emerge from the bottom of the screen - - there's a cut to Brooks on his back , decorated with salad . Where was the muse when she was most needed ? The best feature of the film is Albert Brooks ' performance . He's done it before just about perfectly , and here he does it again . It may be that no one in the history of movies has better expressed astonishment mixed with self-righteous indignation . What a terrific whiner he is .
Richard Powell , on whose novel this movie is based , certainly knew his Philadelphia in the early 20th century . It was tradition bound in the sense that some coastlines are iron bound . And everything that deviated from that tradition was kept under cover because it was a quiet city . No scandals , no engaging corruption , no roguishness . You have to read E . Digby Baltzell's " Puritan Boston and Quaker Philadelphia " to understand the historical roots of this self-effacing character . Powell got the education part right too . The elite of Philadelphia send their sons to Princeton . If the kids go into a profession , like law , medicine , or finance , they revert to the University of Pennsylvania , which happens to have the best professional schools in the business . Those traditions seem to be dying now . The Main Line mansions that once housed people of class like Grace Kelly are now owned by basketball players and people of that ilk . Watching this movie is like looking into a time capsule . The film gets that part right , and that's about it . Otherwise it resembles any other sprawling trans-generational epic story in which people make mistakes then after many travails find themselves again . Family secrets , idealists turned cynics , bastardy , money , social class , love , rebellion , marrying the wrong person , multiple subplots , chicanery , other assorted familiar mishigas - - it's all here . I mentioned that the movie was like something that ought to be in a time capsule and that's true in more ways than one . Everything we see on the screen is old fashioned . The direction by Vincent Sherman has no pizazz whatever , not a nod in the direction of modernity . Staging is strictly functional in the sense that nobody gets in front of anybody else , and when a reaction shot is called for the editor lingers on the face for a few extra seconds to make sure we get the point . The photography is high key and has lots of fill and comes out flat . ( In stark , and even welcome contrast to many of today's films in which even hospital operating rooms are in deep shadow except for the actors ' faces and the hole they are bent over and peering into . ) Everything seems to be shot indoors on a sound stage with perfunctory furniture and accessories . The makeup turns a pseudo-elderly Brian Keith Irishman into a caricature of Boss Tweed . The wardrobe completely lacks either realism or originality . ( A butler appears on the witness stand - - dressed in his butler suit . Barbara Rush is decked out , in all seriousness , in a turban - - in 1959 ! I am anything but an expert on haute couture but turbans belong on Gale Sondergaard in a 1944 Sherlock Holmes movie . ) Despite all the dialog about cash and custom , there is no sense of place . The story might have taken place in almost any big city and might have been shot at any time between 1935 and 1950 . As for the performers , Paul Newman doesn't do a bad job but neither is there any Paul-Newmanness in his acting . He looks at the floor , hits his mark , speaks his piece , and is done . The people who come out of this the best are perhaps Otto Kruger , an old smoothie himself who has been through this sort of thing many times before , and Robert Vaughan in a juicy supporting role . John Williams , in his umpeenth role as a lawyer or investigator of some kind , also comes out ahead . There are a couple of scenes , though , that stick in the mind . Alexis Smith , no longer a spring lamb , looks yummy and when she is consumed by horniness and tries to crawl into Paul Newman's bed at night he weasels out of the complicated business in such a way as to leave her breathless with gratitude . Newman's explanations to the dotty Billie Burke about how she can easily avoid paying taxes on some stock she owns and some charitable contributions she makes was , I thought , quite instructive . If it left me saddened , and it did , it was only because I am so poor I don't pay any taxes and so those kinds of shenanigans were of no more than intellectual value to me . There's a short courtroom scene ( only one witness : the snooty butler ) that wraps everything up neatly and resolves all problems . It's hardly gripping , although the stakes are high . If you're in the mood for this kind of film , it ought to be satisfying enough , but I wound up with a sense of despair at all the opportunities that were simply thrown away because no one seemed to be paying attention .
A commodius vicus of recirculation brings us back to Howth Castle and environs in 1921 , the time of the Irish revolution , the IRA versus the Black and Tans . But make no mistake . This isn't a sentimental tale about lovers of freedom fighting against the oppressors . It's about as brutal as you can get . And there's nothing in the way of history here - - no nonsense about Essex and Tyrone four hundred years ago . The script begins in medias res , right in the middle of the conflict . Jimmy Cagney , a surgeon , is the Commandant of the IRA and serves as a mentor to the American Don Murray , one of his medical students who is swept up by accident into the confrontation . The movie treats the Black and Tans as a kind of Gestapo and takes pains to separate them from the more reasonable British Army . The IRA in turn comes off with far less sympathy than the Mafia did in " The Godfather " movies . Cagney is especially hard hearted . He plays it that way all through to the film's end - - and his - - one of those guys that every war seems to attract , in which battle acquires functional autonomy . The goal is lost sight of and killing becomes a goal in itself . As I write this , the news is reporting the murder of two British soldiers in Northern Ireland . They weren't part of an army of occupation . One was an engineer . Neither was an enemy but we can be reasonably sure that for those who shot the two to death , they managed to convince themselves the murder was an act of patriotism . Cagney is that kind of guy . He stops at nothing . One scene , on the beach with the cynical Glynnis Johns , suggests that his real problem is repressed sexuality . Don Murray is okay . He's clean-cut and handsome , and Dana Wynter at his prisoner is radiant . She's so gracile . When Cagney is about to put a bullet in her , it's no wonder that Murray does him in . It would have been like shooting a pet rabbit . But what a cast ! Cyril Cusack is marvelous , as he always is . Richard Harris is fine too , as a loud-mouthed braggart . Noel Purcell is given a screen credit but his role is smaller than most of mine have been , and I got no credit at all , just minimum wage and a box lunch . The direction is by Michael Anderson , best known , I suppose , for " Around the World in Eighty Days . " As a director of thrillers like this , there is a good deal of variance in the quality of his work . There are some startling shots . A cowering figure seen from behind Cagney's spread legs . And some of the startling shots don't work at all . Cagney , mortally wounded , is seen from ground level , and when he topples over forward his face bangs into the camera as it hits the dirt , facile novelty . Cagney was 60 years old when this was filmed and he looks a little chubby , almost cherubic , but he still manages to bend over and lurch forward when he walks , though perhaps with less lilt . His impression of an Irishman is mediocre . His best impression was always that of Jimmy Cagney , but he's not a contribution to the film's several weaknesses . He's a journeyman actor and knows his business . Ireland would have been a good location for shooting films noir . The cities are sprawling and grimy with some cobblestone streets and a constant gray overcast , often drizzly . When I was last there , during the last outbreak which seems to have ended finally , the graffiti was all about the IRA , pronounced Eee-rah by the kids . See Carol Reed's " Odd Man Out " for a sublime example of what poetry can be wrung from such a grim setting .
This is the story of a world-famous boxer unjustly imprisoned for more than two decades for felony murders he did not commit . His conviction , upheld in a second trial , before he is finally released by a federal court , is practically an operational definition of the term " railroaded . " Rubin " Hurricane " Carter would still be in Trenton State Prison , a hell hole if there ever was one , if it hadn't been for the altruistic efforts of three adults and one adolescent member of a Canadian commune , who became amateur sleuths by accident . The film isn't particularly complicated . In fact , it's dumbed down to a point beyond which a lack of comprehension would be attributed to pathology . Almost all the frissons that might have made this more than a simple tale of moral strength and fortitude have been left out or shaped to fit a familiar mold . Dan Hedaya , for instance , is Paterson , New Jersey's Detective Della Pesci , the personification of racist-motivated darkness . The only reason he's in the movie is to snarl , threaten , make foul racist remarks , chivvy Carter , and see to it that he spends as much time in the slams as possible . Now , imagine that the movie gives him edge and adds other dimensions . Imagine , instead of Detective Della Pesci , Inspector Javert of " Les Miserables , " another police officer who simply cannot give up his persecution and yet is recognizably human rather than another familiar stereotype . It would have been so EASY to give the heavy a family and a dog or at least a social context - - rising black crime in the cities of the 1960s and the panic associated with it . Yet the writers and the director throw away any chance to turn the film into something other than a condemnation of racism and the white people infected by it . As a kid , Hurricane stabs a middle-aged white guy only to save his chum from an oily child molester . Does anyone believe this ? Ho hum . Not to diminish the heinous effects of racism ( or , more generally , prejudice ) in our justice system . It's an imperfect machine , and Carter suffered abominably for every fourteen-year-old black kid who ever decorated a brick wall with graffiti from a can of spray paint . During one of his trials , the prosecution refers to his having been convicted by " a jury of his peers " and Jewison gives us a long shot of the all-white jury , in case we might otherwise miss the point . We can't help being relieved when Carter is ultimately released , and can't help thinking somewhere in the back of our minds about those twenty years of imprisonment . Nobody really has much to do as far as acting is concerned . Denzel Washington is pretty good at projecting pent-up anger and defiance . And the writers have his character develop too . At first he concentrates on turning his body into an instrument of power . But after reading some inspirational books he develops his mind as well , and in practical ways . He resists being swept up in the prison system by rejecting what sociologists have called " the small reward system " of total institutions . If favors are returned by cigarettes , Carter doesn't smoke . If submission leads to protection , Carter can do without the protection . His career in the Army , however , was not quite the smooth ride the movie gives us , but let's not dabble in too many discrepancies between art and life . The other characters are rather blank . Life in the Canadian commune was evidently not lastingly satisfying . ( Carter and Deborah Kara Unger's blond altruist were married , then divorced . ) But we don't really get to know much about them . They - - and Carter's legal defense team - - are played mostly as bland do-gooders who would have failed if not pushed to the wall by the power of Carter's will . There's a good movie around this story , lurking someplace , unorganized , entropic , waiting for someone to write it and put it on the screen . It's a parable of good and evil . Not of good people and evil people , but of people who are themselves good and evil , just like all the rest of us . But this isn't that movie .
I kind of enjoy seeing this movie every few years , for a number of reasons . The first reason is Jacqueline Bisset , She is stunning , all sun tan , big blue eyes that look in slightly different direction , impressively bebosomed , nice legs - - and we are introduced to her while she's scuba diving at Bermuda with her boyfriend Nick Nolte . She wears only her soaking wet T-shirt and a teeny bikini bottom . Later we are treated to her being felt up and undressed by bad guy Louis Gosset , Jr . , and his gang of black thugs . Still later , a bunch of hoodoo priests hold her down on a bed , cut open her nightie , and paint her belly button with a severed chicken foot dipped in fresh blood . The thrills never end . The second reason is the colorful and evocative location photography . Bermuda looks terribly appealing here . The palms , the brushy cliffs , the finely grained sand of the beaches , the salt-encrusted cottages , the eternal sunshine , the soaking T-shirts . After they find a bit of treasure and a bit of morphine in the rotting iron hulk of a sunken warship , Nolte and Bisset consult the local know-it-all and sociometric hub , Robert Shaw for advice . He lives in a cozy two-story white lighthouse atop a hill . The lovely couple also rent a pair of the motor scooters that are ubiquitous on Bermuda and are forced off the road in an arousing chase . The underwater photography is strikingly convincing , though much of it was shot in a tank . The Caribbean has never been so aquamarine . It's like reading Shakespeare's song from " The Tempest " - - " Full fathom five thy father lies " - - only on mescaline . I guess the third is my admiration for the writer , Peter Benchley . This was his follow-up to the blockbusting " Jaws " a year earlier . Benchley takes these vacations , you see , to Martha's Vineyard or , as here , Bermuda or , as later , elsewhere around the Caribbean , learns a little bit about some features of the local culture , builds a commercial story around it , and then gets to deduct all his vacations from his income taxes . ( Research . ) There must have been a fourth reason too , but I'm getting a little foggy . Maybe it's the bends ! Oh , no . I know what it was - - the story . It's - - well , it's FAST . And violently expectable . There are three or four dives to the old shipwreck in the movie and there's not a one of them that doesn't involve multiple hazards . On the very first , mainly recreational dive , Jacqueline Bisset , who can be identified because she's the one wearing the soaking wet T-shirt , is poking her stick around in a hole in the rocks and the stick is grabbed by some unseen varmit that yanks her repeatedly against the hole , leaving her positively breathless although not at all breastless . I mean it . You just KNOW that in the course of these dives a crate of ammunition is going to be shaken loose by a quivering of the feckless wreck and dumped down on Nolte , trapping him in a compartment below . You know this just as you know that sharks will appear at some point and do something that endangers the lives of the divers . For bonus points , a vicious moray eel appears suddenly , its many-toothed mouth wide enough to encompass a human head ( which it does ) . There will be spear guns too , and they will be used in the course of an underwater fight in which dark gurgling figures tumble slowly around one another while grappling - - and simultaneously a fuze sputters nearer to the dynamite planted beneath them . And knives , naturally . Oh , and an exploding fireball above that lighthouse , and another under the hulk . Then there are scenes in which we find out about treasure , establishing provenance ( meaning authenticating the treasure ) , and things like that . Very educational . Should you watch it ? Why not ? We all need a vacation of the mind .
Ten-year-old Tatum O'Neal is no Shirley Temple in this tale of a Midwestern miscreant ( Ryan O'Neal , her dad ) who adopts her while scamming bereaved widows into buying his phony , inscribed Bibles . The two O'Neals scrap constantly as they meander from town to town and misadventure to misadventure . Tatum quickly proves as adept at conning people as her dad does and they form quite a team , despite the spats . It's an enjoyable film , a comedy with slightly darker undertones . Ryan's affair with Miss Trixie Delight ( Madeline Kahn ) is emblematic . Ryan picks up Kahn , a cootch dancer and sometime hooker , at a carnival and she and her young , black servant join the O'Neals on their trip through Kansas . Kahn is pretty shallow , though , even compared to the two O'Neals . Ryan spends lavishly on her and presumably is comforted in return by whatever it is that she has and he wants . ( This is the 1930s and " times are hard . " ) Tatum is resentful of Kahn , not only because she sees through her but because Kahn is preempting Tatum's place in the car's front seat . So Tatum becomes jealous and angry and at one point refuses to get into the car with the rest . Kahn tries to talk some sense into her and lays the whole thing out in plain language . Kahn gets something , Ryan gets something , and the two kids get something , and everything will end sooner or later with everybody a little happier . Tatum simply scowls back . " You're going to spoil everything , aren't you ? " , Kahn says , genuinely rueful . Tatum is manipulative enough to arrange for Ryan to barge into Kahn's hotel room while Kahn is picking up a few extra dollars from the hotel clerk . I guess we're supposed to be happy to see Madeline Kahn thrown out of the party , so the O'Neals can go on their happy way unencumbered . After all , Kahn is sickeningly elegant ( " I have to go winkie-tinkie again " ) , while Tatum is plumb forthright ( " I have to go to the house " ) . And Kahn sells her body , too . I must be perverse because I didn't find the outcome satisfying . Sure , Kahn is a liar and exploiter . And the O'Neals ? As the Good Book says , " Let him who is without sin cast the first stone . " Ryan winds up getting clobbered by some crooks he stole money from ( John Hillerman - - great ) . And the two continue their merry journey together , broke but happy . The film does its best to evoke the 1930s , for the most part successfully . A movie marquee advertises John Ford's " Steamboat Round the Bend . " The O'Neals call their hot dogs " coney islands " . There always seems to be a radio playing contemporary pop songs like " Keep Your Sunny Side Up . " It's nicely photographed and captures the area around Hays , Kansas , pretty well , though color wouldn't have spoiled the production . The overall tone is comic and heartwarming and written and edited in a way to sound outrageous - - Tatum smokes cigarettes and knows all about sex - - though I suspect the only people who might titter at her faux sophistication would be elderly people living in towns smaller than Hays , Kansas . No masterpiece , but it's so good-natured that you'll probably like it as much as I did .
Audrey Totter is splashed all over the ads for this movie , so I naturally worried it would be the story of a woman in jeopardy . You know the kind . Nice rich girl is swept off her feat and marries a dark and handsome man of mystery but he's really a cad who is out for her money and she finds out he's planning to kill her but when he creeps into her bedroom with the claw hammer she slips away from him but tonight of all nights the door is locked and if the cops hadn't busted in because of that pesky neighbor why who knows what would have happened . It's not that , though . It's a pretty clever little crime drama involving intrigue and even mystery . Richard Basehart is convincing as Warren Quimby or Phineas Quimby or whatever his first name is . ( It's the last that counts - - " Quimby " - - because it tells us all we need to know about him . ) He's a pharmacist desperately , even masochistically , in love with his wife , Audrey Totter , who treats him with contempt , sees other men whenever she feels like it , and finally runs off to Malibu with one of them , the heathen slut . Boy , does this brown Basehart off ! He plans to kill the big brute she's living with by adopting a different identity , so he establishes a second residence under the name of Paul Southern and trades his wimpy eyeglasses in for a pair of contacts . ( They must have been new at the time because they get quite a bit of attention . ) He also strikes up a friendship with his new neighbor , Cyd Charisse , and they fall for each other . So , as planned , Basehart hitches out to Malibu and is about to kill the man who is cuckolding him but thinks better of it . Just before doing the deed , he realizes that , hey , his wife is pretty smarmy after all and this big lug can keep her . Basehart walks away into the night . But all is not over . Next day the big brute's body is found with a . 38 slug in it and the cops ( Barry Sullivan and William Conrad ) track down Phineas Quimby and " Paul Southern " and arrest him as the chief suspect in the murder . The right of legal privilege prevents me from any further disclosure of the plot points . The film is inexpensive . No big bankable stars . No big chases , no shoot outs . But it's engaging . In the course of his career , Richard Basehart played a range of characters , from menacing murderers to = = well , to sneaky murderers , I guess , but he always came across to me as a nice guy from Ohio who was playing the heavy . The director , John Berry , should have reined Audrey Totter in . She only uses two expressions : a treacherous seductive smile and a contemptuous sneer . It would have been far better if her overacting hadn't underlined what the character's behavior is already telling us . What kind of noir would " Double Indemnity " have been if Phyllis Dietrichson had let us know from the very beginning that she was nothing more than a rotten , lying , exploitative murdering witch ? Cyd Charisse is a beautiful and talented woman , but a an actress of modest talent , and Sydney , the hair stylist , has Guilaroffed her into something resembling Francis Coppola's Dracula . Really weird . But it doesn't disguise her beauty . It's impossible to make Cyd Charisse look bad . She STILL looked elegant fifty years after " The Bandwagon . " Barry Sullivan gives a cool performance as the Lieutenant from Homicide . The writers are partly responsible , as they are for some of the other nifty little things about the movie . The title , " Tension " , is based on Sullivan's introductory spiel , during which he plays with an over-sized rubber band , illustrating how he builds up the eponymous tension in his suspects . He plays with the elastic band on and off throughout , at one point using playfully as a slingshot . Another instance of the writers ' facility : Basehart , behind bars , is repeating his alibi for the night of the murder . Sullivan and Conrad are listening , and Conrad is eating a jelly doughnut . " Why don't you tell us the truth ? " , snarls Conrad . " You're beginning to sound like a phonograph record with the needle stuck in the groove . " And later , when Basehart desperately begins to go over the same ground , Conrad closes his eyes and moves the half-eaten doughnut round and round . By the way , there's a scene in which Basehart calls his intended victim and disguises his voice by holding a handkerchief over the receiver . It does not work . I know because I tried it . I called my home phone using a handkerchief and left a threatening message on my answering machine . When I got home , I played the tape . At first I was a little concerned , wondering whom I could have offended , but on a second playing I was able to correctly guess the identity of the caller ( me ) and in no time at all I figured out that the message wasn't meant seriously . It's not a challenging movie and it doesn't purport to be artistic . It's a well-groomed and enjoyable Hollywood product .
It's hard to watch this without comparing it to the 1955 musical directed by Richard Quine ( who happens to play Frank in this version ) and starring Janet Leigh , Betty Garret , Bob Fosse , and Tommy Rall . The stories are fundamentally similar - - two cheerful and ambitious sisters from Columbus , Ohio , the level-headed Ruth ( here , Rosalind Russell ) and the gorgeous blond Eileen ( here , Janet Blair ) come to New York to seek careers . They rent a preposterous basement apartment in Greenwich Village where they are constantly finagled with by a sly landlord ( here , George Tobias ) who is an artist manque . Their days are punctuated by occasional blasts from the subway that is being built beneath the building . There are an abundance of kooky characters . Their upstairs neighbor is a dopey , unemployed football player supported by his wife . All the men fall under the spell of the would-be actress , Eileen . The less flamboyantly sugary Ruth , who is an aspiring writer , is disregarded by men until one of her editors learns to appreciate her . The story ( or stories ) must have great appeal . They first appeared in The New Yorker , I think . Then they were assembled into the play on which this film is based . Then there appeared the Leonard Bernstein musical , under a different name ( " Wonderful Town " ) , then the 1955 musical . There have been several revivals . Compared to the 1955 musical version , this seems more stage bound , which is not necessarily bad . And without the musical numbers , there's more room for various gags , some funnier than others . This version is so OVERFLOWING with characters that must have seemed colorful to the folks back in Columbus , Ohio , that at times it's crowded with them , all doing and saying kooky things . A hooker or , pardon me , a young woman ( June Havoc ) who used to " hold séances " and " read fortunes " in the apartment drops in to leave a stack of her new business cards for any former clients who happen to stop by - - and stop , they do . The door lock is broken so people can come and go without warning . There are myriad incidents involving misunderstandings , situationally based wisecracks , mixed identities , drunks , cops , pratfalls , explosions , congas , and dogs chasing cats through the barred window of the basement . This film is amusing in its own right . It's as if the whole insane cast of " You Can't Take It With You " had been shoved into this little basement apartment . With the jokes abounding , they can't all miss . Yet , for a couple of reasons , I prefer the 1955 musical , the only other version of this story that I've seen . For one thing , the 1955 plot is less confused . Bob Fosse and Tommy Rall are both ga-ga over Eileen . ( In fact , Janet Leigh looks a lot like Janet Blair . ) Both Fosse and Rall get more screen time than the same two characters here - - plus , they performances have more charm . Fosse is not the ridiculous goof that his character is in this earlier version . And Tommy Rall gives a better performance as his rival , Chick Clark . Rall was nobody's idea of a great actor but he's splendid as the fast-talking , underhanded suitor . Here , Allyn Joslin seems fagged out and not particularly interested in Eileen . And that's not to mention the hilarious " Give Me a Band " number or a synapse-fusing , blistering " Competition Ballet " between Fosse and Rall . The 1955 version is also more carefully paced , less forced and frenetic . The romance angle is taken a bit more seriously . One has a chance to breathe between manic episodes . Not that this isn't very amusing , just that it was probably more so in 1942 than it might be today . We're less easily shocked . Odd characters living in Greenwich Village ? Oh , yes - - much less easily shocked .
There isn't too much of Homer left in this comic book adventure detailing the voyage of Ulysses ( Kirk Douglas ) from the shores of Troy to his home in Ithaca . It's all pretty much boiled down . Gone are such distractions as Scylla and Charybdis and the naughty Calypso . But we still have an extended stay with Circe the witch ( Sylvana Mangano ) , in which Douglas excels at comic self justification . He spends a comfortable night in Circe's bed and the next day presents himself and tells her he and his men are leaving on their ship . Circe slyly informs him that the wind doesn't pick up on this island until sundown . " Well , " Douglas muses , " no point in leaving early . The men would break their backs on the oars . And they're all good men . They deserve a rest . " So he spends the next five years eating lotus blossoms , drinking wine , and sleeping with Circe until his men go half nuts with waiting and leave him behind . If it resembles a typical sword and sandal epic from the 1950s starring one or another muscle man it's probably because it was made at Cinecitta and used many of the same cast and crew . And , of course , at feature-film length it had to be compressed - - Procrusteanized , so to speak - - in order to fit in as many episodes as it now contains . The scenes back on Ithaca , with Penelope ( also Sylvana Mangano ) weaving her tapestry and unweaving it at night to keep the blood-sucking suitors at bay , are retained , and they're not as bad as they might be . Anthony Quinn is Antinuous , chief of the suitors , and he comes across not as a greasy freeloader but as a masculine , common-sense kind of guy who just about convinces Penelope that his feelings for her are genuine and that Ulysses , gone lo these ten years , is dead . ( It's only just before the bloody climax that he reveals his truer nature . ) Some scenes are still fairly powerful , given the cheap special effects . Ulysses ' visit to Hades and his encounter with the dead , who try to convince him that ANY kind of life is better than being dead . And Polyphemus is pretty horrible too . And there is a bit of wit built into the script . When they first notice Polyphemus ' huge footprint , the men quail and start muttering about " giants . " " Probably just a man with big feet , " comments the phlegmatic Douglas , the man who does not believe in isomorphism . Alas , the gods are left out of the story , which detracts from our understanding of what's going on and is a betrayal of the movie's Homeric source . I guess if you want gods and goddesses , you have to go to Homer or Thorne Smith . Douglas is an adequate Ulysses . He's pretty sneaky . ( The film leaves out the " no-man " ruse he used with the cyclops but includes the Trojan horse . ) And he looks right . Except for Quinn , the rest of the cast doesn't really contribute much , though Rossana Podesta as Nausicaa looks cute , in a Cynthia Gibb way . Entertaining version of an epic tale .
A story of the kidnapping of a young woman ( Candace Bergen ) and her two children by Morrocan brigand Raisuli ( Sean Connery ) and his band of warriors . The episode begins with Bergen having tea in her garden with her elderly British guest . The sudden quiet is broken by Berber horsemen crashing through the lattice work . They slice down the Brit with their sword , then go on to vandalize the place , chopping up unarmed servants as well , before tying up Bergen and her kids and putting them on horses to be taken away . Before they leave , though , Connery's robe flies up , covering his face , and his horse whirls through some trees and bushes until he is de-horsed and falls flat . Bergen has been watching this , and when Connery does a pratfall she laughs at him . Why is this woman laughing ? Well , it shows she has character . And it gives Connery a reason to slap her and re-furbish the masculinity he'd lost , at the expense of a subordinate . But does it make sense ? Let me put it this way - - if you had just seen your house destroyed and your friends get their heads lopped off , and you were a woman who had no idea where she and her kids would be taken or what would be done to them , would you have laughed under those circumstances ? The same disjointedness shows up elsewhere in the film , as people do improbable things . The ugly German cavalry officer - - the others look plump , like Bismarck , but this guy is just ugly and never laughs - - is in the middle of a battle with Connery and his men . He has Connery in the sights of his Mauser . Connery , smiling and unafraid , raises his sword in salute and challenges the German officer to mano a mano combat with swords . The German puts away his pistol , draws his sword , and accepts Connery's offer as asked . ( He's not only ugly . He's stupid too . ) There are a lot of battle scenes in this , and they're well handled . There are also two important relationships that we follow . There is Connery and Bergen , and Connery and President Teddy Roosevelt ( Brian Keith ) who are in a kind of long-distance duel . Plenty of intrigue too , including an incident in which the U . S . Marines attack the palace of the Morrocan Hefe at Fez . It's neatly directed . The Marines , backed up by armed sailors , double time it to the palace entrance . The Captain is shouting orders , and the Marines precisely follow them , left face , hostiles to the left , aim , and fire . There are a dozen or so palace guards standing on the steps watching all these goings on . They are armed but nonplussed . They take no steps to defend the palace or themselves . They just glance at one another , hoping for an explanation . Ka-BOOM , and they are all dead . The problem I have with this sort of thing is that I have a feeling the writer / director , John Milius , approved of it and got a kick out of directing it . ( The innocent palace guards may deserve to have been slaughtered because they weren't ready enough to kill the Marines . ) He's a genuine gun freak , and in a recent TV movie about Teddy Roosevelt , he has the men in the middle of battle inspiring each other and themselves by shouting passages from Shakespeare's Henry V , about having " fought on St . Crispan's Day " . I get the feeling that the people behind the story didn't really mind scenes in which men killed one another . We always know who to root for . Men have notions of honor , and women can have spunk , and Milius finds that inspiring . Before the takeover , an American consular official asks the Marine captain what they're next movie might be . The camera moves in for a big close up of the captain's grinning face as he says , about to pop with anticipatory excitement , " Military intervention . " The Vietnam war was on everyone's mind while this was shot and released and , by God , maybe we didn't get what we wanted in Southeast Asia but we got it in this fictional intervention in North Africa . This film may have been America's first attempt at a virtual victory in Vietnam . It was to be followed by innumerable Rambos and Chuck Norrises and many others . We managed to win in Vietnam a dozen times over . The general attitude is conveyed in some dialog given to Roosevelt , just after he's shot and killed a huge grizzly bear near Yellowstone . " The world will never love us . They may fear us . Respect us . But they'll never love us . " It's too bad that sociology had not yet developed the concept of the self-fulfilling prophecy . If they had , someone might have pointed out this statement as a good example of it . Or , as in the sociologist W . I . Thomas put it , " If men define situations as real , they are real in their consequences . " You think someone doesn't like you ? That absence of affection is easily arranged . Just treat him the way you'd treat someone who doesn't like you . I enjoy this film once in a while . The direction is efficient , the battles exciting , the photography and location splendid , and the acting is quite good by almost everyone - - particularly Sean Connery and Brian Keith . Everybody seems to make fun of Candace Bergen's acting efforts but I don't know why . She does pretty well in the role of the unflappable victim who is constantly surprising Connery by her defiant attitude . And the film has its amusing moments .
Charlton Heston , a Mexican-American lawyer , and his new wife , Janet Leigh , get mixed up in a gang murder in a border town . The chief detective is Orson Welles , full of his splendid self , excessively corpulent , and sporting a hawkish putty nose . He eats candy . ( " It's either that or the booze , " he rumbles in his commanding bass voice . ) He dresses worse than Lieutenant Columbo . Oh , Heston may dash around a lot , seeking justice , and his wife may be threatened by pachucos and hypodermic-wielding lesbians , and there may be multiple uncredited cameos , and Dennis Weaver may turn in the performance of his life as an inn keeper with the animation of a jack-in-the-box but it's Welles ' porcine presence that dominates in the film . It's hard to know what to make of it . It's inexpensively made and , according to Heston , Welles could simply not bring himself to edit and put an end to it . The cinematic conventions of the 1950s were being deep sixed . The Nouvelle Vague was establishing itself in France . Welles ' film , too , discards many of the triter movie conventions - - good hero , bad villain , coherent plot - - but it doesn't belong to any school of film , or even any genre . It's Welles ' own . There is a justifiably famous opening shot that shows us a bomb placed in car trunk . The camera then follows the car as it's driven around town , across the border , through crowded streets , until - - boom . The shot is a lengthy one and the camera rises up over rooftops and swoops slowly down for details . Heston's alien lawyer is mostly ineffective . The law is in Welles ' hands and he's an ambiguous figure . He's straight enough , for a small-town cop , but given to planting evidence without a qualm , and not above strangling a gangster who threatens to expose him . Welles ' " Citizen Kane " of seventeen years earlier was an undisputed masterpiece . How good is " Touch of Evil " ? It's fascinating without being perfectly executed . It's the story of the downfall of a man who is gross and generally unpleasant , but whom we've come to know and even pity a little . It meanders all over the place and is often confusing as hell . Sometimes I didn't know which side of the border we were on . The dialog is functional but little of it is memorable . Welles grins slyly at Marlene Dietrich , an ex girl friend , and hints he might come back to " sample some more of her chili " sometime . ( " You a mess , honey , " she tells him . ) Welles tells a suspect that after the explosion , " We found a shoe in the road . There was a foot in that shoe . We're going to make you pay for that , boy . " If it had been made by someone else , a brand new director , it might have been hailed as an innovative first feature . Knowing it was made by Welles , who had so many tricks up his sleeve , it's a bit of a disappointment , despite its eccentricities and because of its longueurs . I always enjoy watching it when it shows up on cable TV but I wouldn't enjoy multiple viewings too often . Compared to " Citizen Kane , " which was prepared with infinite care , this looks like a pretty sloppy lash up . Maybe Orson Welles would have been better off if he hadn't made " Citizen Kane . " Everything that came afterward seems a let down . And Welles , his apologists notwithstanding , didn't help matters much himself .
An above average , if inexpensive , Warner Brothers war-time movie about the Free French in England . Five French convicts manage to escape from Devil's Island with the help of Grandpere , a patriotic ex-convict who has managed to save enough money to buy the escapees a canoe . He makes them promise that when they escape they will fight the Germans who have occupied France . All but Bogart take the oath . What a bunch of Frenchmen they are too . Grandpere is a Russian . The rest of the group include a New York Episcopalian , one Slovakian Jew , one Jew from New York , a Dutchman , and an Austrian anti-Nazi . That's Warners for you . As long as they had an accent they could be anything . George Tobias does decently by his French accent . Bogart isn't required to try . It's a decent movie - - full of propaganda of course , but well acted and thoroughly dramatic , written by Nordoff and Hall ( " Mutiny on the Bounty " ) and directed by craftsman Michael Curtiz . The picture is deadly serious . When a German aircraft attacks the freighter the convicts are on , Bogart not only helps shoot it down but then machine guns the helpless German crew as they climb onto the wings of the wrecked plane . It's a brutal scene today , and probably was at the time . The structure is a little complicated . There is a flashback within a flashback , for instance . ( I think one of the narrators is named Marlow . Is this an echo of Conrad ? ) But we never get lost . There is an action scene near the beginning , in which Free French flying fortresses bomb occupied France and fight off German planes , but most of the film is taken up with the journey made by the convicts from Cayenne to the French airfield in the English countryside . The film is studio bound and the maritime scenes are tank bound , but art direction is up to Warners ' standards and sometimes looks better than the real thing . Makeup did a fine job too . A bitter and efficient movie . Worth catching .
An unusual flick , divided into two parts , the first part taking up most of the screen time and being the more involving . William of Baskerville - - a name to conjure with - - and his sidekick Adzo arrive at a medieval monastery run by Dominican monks , rather like Monte Cassino . The Dominicans were never known for their sense of humor . Baskerville and friend are Franciscans , a different order of monk , characterized more by a sort of mystic love of things human and animal . Since Baskerville is a Franciscan , there is immediate conflict between him and his hosts , one which , in the end , turns out to underlie in a complicated way the entire mystery with which the film starts , turning on the apparent murders of several of the Dominicans . It's this mystery story which intrigues the viewer . Who dunnit ? Baskerville , aided ( and sometimes hindered ) by his pal , young Dr . Watson , I mean young Adzo , exercises all of his ratiocinative powers to solve the case , using a magnifying glass , examining footprints for their unique points , figuring out ways to solve directions to the Musgrave cellar , I mean a labyrinthine library . It's all rather neatly done . Sean Connery is utterly charming . Christian Slater is under more control than usual . The monastery's inhabitants are right out of a Charles Addams cartoon . Man , do they have odd haircuts . And bad teeth . And opaque eyes . And some are obese and pale and given to homoerotic escapades . In fact it could be argued that Baskerville and Adzo are the only two " normal " - looking folks in the crowd . The mystery has something to do with a horde of forbidden books , including the second book of Aristotle's " Poetics , " hidden in a secret library . Then Professor Moriarty arrives and the whole structure weakens and shivers like one of Aquinas's arguments that prove the existence of God . F . Murray Abraham plays it straight . He's genuinely evil , and does a splendid job as Bernardo Gui . Bernardo finds three people - - ranging from the misguided communist to the frankly psychotic - - guilty of conspiring with the devil and consigns them to the flames . The burning is pretty gruesome too . The agony isn't as prolonged as Dryer's Joan of Arc , but it's pretty horrifying . But really . Everything seems to go awry during the last third of the picture . Adzo escapes the burning library but Baskerville is trapped in the holocaust . The director cross-cuts between scenes of Baskerville having a philosophical conversation with the chief villain - - " You can't expect to deny laughter is a human characteristic " - - and scenes of people getting roasted outside . Then Baskerville emerges from the holocaust that is the monastery with a handful of precious books from what has been described as " the finest library in all Christendom , " and this is treated as some sort of victory . It was during this period when Western civilization didn't have much going for it , except what literature had been salvaged from the ancient Greeks , and that was in the hands of the church . The crusades were to bring us into contact with the Saracens who reintroduced the rest of us to additional Greek and Roman literature and science . Algebra was their own contribution . ( I don't think I'll ever forgive them . ) The Christian church was one potent sociopolitical force . Did Lord Acton really says , " Power corrupts ; absolute power corrupts absolutely " ? It's been quoted so many times I'm not sure I believe it anymore . But the church then wasn't the church we know today . You could be absolved of a sin you committed by confessing it to a representative of the church and then doing penance , which often involved a financial contribution to the church . After a while , it became possible to be absolved of sins you had not yet committed by paying for an indulgence . You could then sell the indulgence to someone else , possibly at a profit . Eventually there came to be a futures market in indulgences , with priests and monks hawking them like peddlers in the town square . So crooked they remind one of today's inside traders and the CEOs at Enron . Compared to them , these monks are pretty benign . The movie ends on a wistful note , but not a happy one .
The print I always manage to catch is tinted a gloomy blue but that's okay . The movie is worth watching anyway . The story line is familiar enough that I won't bother going over it much . The notion that the thieves should name themselves after colors - - Mr . Brown , Mr . Green - - was adopted by Tarantino for " Reservoir Dogs , " of course , as every Turturro addict knows . I should point out that the novel is at least as good as the film because the author occasionally uses an omniscient point of view and we get some better notion of what the participants in this caper are feeling . The confrontation between the African-American kid and Robert Shaw on the subway platform is more amusing , for instance . In the film , the kid glares at Shaw , and Shaw can only smile back . In the novel we are taken inside the kid's head and invited to play with him the game that he plays with people like Shaw . He has this idea , you see , that if he stares at some stranger with this particularly menacing expression , " he HYPMOTIZE him ! " As it turns out , Shaw is nobody to play games with . In deciding whom to execute , Shaw looks around the car and thinks about the flat-out drunken woman . She'd be the least missed . But on the other hand , " who am I to play God . " The exposition in the novel is clumsy but adds to our understanding of what's going on . We get more information about how many cars there are on a subway train , how long the train is , how many transit cops are around , and how they relate to the NYPD . Kind of interesting , in a touristy way . The Japanese " monkeys " in the movie serve their comedic purpose . Anyone who has seen footage of the real Tokyo subway system in operation must suspect that they view the New York City subway system as a paragon of order and good taste . ( In Tokyo , they use " pushers " to squeeze as many innocent passengers as possible into each car ; what happens if one of them wants to release some Sirin gas ? ) Walter Mathau is at his slouching New-Yorkese best , grumbling , kwetching , outfitted in a droopy suit with a startling canary yellow tie . And - - well , look at the movie . Here we are given a story about the hijacking of a subway train - - and there is not a single exploding fireball . There is some shooting with automatic weapons and pistols , but not much of that , and nobody wields two Uzzis at once . Nobody's head balloons into jelly . There is no blood , and no final shoot out in an unused deadend tunnel or empty warehouse . Mathau doesn't even carry a gun . The movie ends with a sneeze and an ironically polite German blessing . The acting is up to snuff , the narrative easy enough to follow , and exciting , if not entirely believable . The villains are neatly differentiated . The low-brow greedy ex-motorman of Martin Balsam , who practically embodies New York City in its grittier aspects ; Shaw's icy disdain ; Elizondo's angry psychopathy . It's an enjoyable movie , all around . The fact that it was made when it was , in 1974 , helps in understanding why the story and characters weren't overwhelmed by special effects . Cf . , Stallone's movie about the Holland Tunnel . ( Everyone in that movie should have been drowned ; who would want to go to New Jersey anyway ? The state smells like somebody's old sweatshirt . ) It ought to be mentioned that despite the tension and occasional violence this is a pretty funny movie . Much of the humor grows out of urban , ethnic cynicism and vulgarity . Yiddish is flung around profligately - - " Mishigas , " " putz . " The transit supervisor , a Polish-American , is accosted by a released hostage who shouts , " I'm gonna SUE you ! Hear me ? I'm gonna SUE your a . " Cas Dolowitz bellows back an obscene Italian expression that can be roughly rendered as " fanablagotz ! " It would be nice to turn back the clock and be able to watch a film like " The Taking of Pelham One Two Three " on a regular basis . It engages your interest with no pretensions at attempting to do anything else . It leaves your eardrums intact . Did you realize that one of the membranes in your inner ear is so sensitive that it transmits sound by vibrating only the diameter of a hydrogen atom ? If you want to treat your ears like a temple instead of a pool room , see this movie and avoid " action-movie gap . " Do it now . Offer ends at midnight . Not sold in stores .
This comment may contain spoilers There are two pretty extraordinary shots in this film . In the first , Nastassja Kinski is sitting with her head back on the seat rest . She's traveling in a train . She stares into the camera . And the background changes into a busy railway station where she opens a door and walks into an oneiristic room of tangerine and black leopards and all is explained to her by the image of her brother , Malcom MacDowell . The second is the last shot in the film . We see a screen full of the panther's face . The panther roars open mouthed , then closes its jaws and the frame freezes on the gigantic cat staring into the camera with its hypnotic green eyes and vertical irises . The shot lasts for many seconds . There seems to be no one else in the world but the viewer and that panther , staring at each other . By this time we know pretty much what the panther is feeling . And , our gaze locked on the frozen image , we can easily imagine that the cat's stare is a knowing one , that she knows what we feel too . We seem to be at one with the beast . It's like Rilke on mushrooms . But , apropos , maybe we'd better not make too much of that shot . Many years ago I used to feel the same way after a refreshing dose of herbal tea , staring at the four Beatles staring back at me from the open cover of the Sergeant Pepper album . And besides , when you come right down to it , I'm not sure it's a good idea to have a man-eating carnivore reading your mind . Anyway the director , Paul Schrader , should have his hand shaken for those two scenes . His work throughout is professionally competent . He has a tendency to see the world in terms of good and evil - - usually with someone caught between - - and the results aren't always pretty . " The Cat People " isn't too different in that regard . Alas , though , the thing is another remake . The original was done by Val Lewton at RKO on a budget that was probably one nanobillionth of what was spent on this one , and the earlier version is at least as good , and better in some respects . We must at least give the first version bonus points for originality . I don't want to get into the story because it's either simple enough to have been adequately described elsewhere or so complicated that it would take too much space . Essentially it's about a brother and sister - - MacDowell and Kinski - - who inhabit a world between black panthers and human beings . MacDowell and Kinski seem to be the only specimens around , although the legend suggests they ought to form a community through chain migration . They remain human as long as they mate with their own kind . ( MacDowell wants to put a little something in the kitty . A frisson of incest here . ) If they mate with humans they turn into killer panthers and in order to get well again they must kill . But how can they pass on this catabolic capacity without belonging to a community of cat people ? Right away there's a problem with the plot , similar to the one in the original . Simone Simon in the original was apparently human UNLESS she mated with a human . ( Her long-suffering husband was Kent Smith . ) She morphs into a panther when her psychiatrist puts some moves on her and she tears him to shreds . It took me many years to realize that he must have raped her before this happened , but it couldn't be shown on screen . The problem is that Simone Simon morphs at will twice earlier in the movie , in two truly spooky scenes involving a bus and a swimming pool . Kinski , virgo intacta , also apparently morphs in order to kill a rabbit . The acting is pretty good . John Heard comes across as a likable kind of guy . Annette O'Toole , as the colleague who loves him , is too good to be true . In real life , she'd be a woman who disarticulates her rival Kinski from top to bottom . Now there's an idea . How many more magnetic actresses have there been than Nastassja Kinski ? Not too many . She seems so innocent , with her softly modulated infantile voice . Her lips are askew . Her right eye is open and clear , her left is heavily lidded . She seems rarely to look straight at someone else , so the other person can't know whether Kinski is being shy or sly . She glows with an inner heat , a human Franklin stove with trim legs and a saucy rear . Madre de Dios , that crabbing scene with Heard , when she bends over in her shorts and waders ! The original is the better movie , I think , partly because it was a true original and partly because of the producer's good taste and imagination . You only saw the cat for a few seconds . Here , the animal should get second billing . And in the original too , one had a sense of everyone's leading an ongoing unhurried happy life until Simone brought her sad , diseased nature into it . In this one everything seems at least slightly deranged from the outset .
There isn't much new in the idea . Two women , both hungry , living alone . A handyman comes in . He does both of them . One , in the course of an unrelated subplot , knifes a man to death and is sent to jail , carrying the handyman's baby . After a year or so , she gets out and is reunited with the handyman , her baby , and the other woman - - happily , it seems . What I kind of like about it is mostly the acting . Barbara Hershey is glamorized and stunning . And Debra Winger gives her character a real life of her own . Man , is she homely . She wears thick glasses , has her hair tied back like the head of a mop , wears no makeup , and pinches her lips together and twitches from time to time . It's the kind of performance - - playing an inadequate socially challenged semi-loony - - that wins Academy Awards . And I appreciated Gabriel Byrne's character and performance too . A by-the-numbers route here would have brought in a ruggedly handsome , perfectly gorgeous , virile , flawless guy , brimming with danger and testosterone . Instead the movie gives us Gabe Byrne . Yes , he's a kind of ne'er do well and a rogue but he's not Vigo Mortenson or Brad Pitt . His face looks as if it's been molded out of candle wax that has begun to melt . He gets drunk just about every night and can't hold a job . He admits he's a lying thief . And - - for this I was particularly grateful - - he never ONCE takes off his shirt and shows us his sweaty chest while splitting logs or , er , plowing a field . One night , drunk , he stumbles into Winger's little bungalow . He's filled with remorse , poses her as a priest in a confessional , asks her , " Are you Catholic ? Ah , never mind , you don't know what the I'm talking about anyway . " Then he begs this rudely shaped lump of clay for absolution and weeps in her lap before kissing her . ( Her first time , we don't doubt . ) She's alternately charmed and horrified . The language and the sex are fairly explicit . The sex includes masturbation , defloration , and - - well , normal intercourse , I guess , if the definition is extended to include coupling on a floor full of broken crockery with one of the partners so deliriously drunk that she believes the man is someone else . It's nicely directed too . No razzle-dazzle . No , " Hey , Ma , look at me ! I got a camera ! " Just one or two shots involving a pair of eyeglasses draw attention to themselves . The rest is very efficiently done . When Strathairn dies , he does so in a most unexpected way , stabbed multiple times , and whining about , " Hey , what did you do to me . " There's blood all over the place , as there should be when someone is bleeding to death , but not a single shot of a knife piercing flesh . And his killer reassuring him as he expires , " It's okay . It's okay . " She can't dial 911 because she can't find her glasses . The end is a little disturbing if you bother to think about it . After all , Debra Winger has stabbed a guy to death over some squabble at her workplace . " A Dangerous Woman " is right . And it appears that Byrne is finally going to make an honest woman out of her . I hope she never gets mad at HIM . The photography is very nicely done . I don't know where it was shot but it looks a bit like the Coachella Valley in California . Nice ranch house . Nice lines of fruit-bearing trees in the orchards . Mountains all around . Fan palms . The Garden of Eden with humans in it .
SPOILERS . Actually this is a pretty well-done movie about environmental law . There have been quite a few of them around over the last decade or so but this is one of the better ones . It follows the usual configuration - - the lone hero beginning as a materialist and contracting a bad case of ideals , making sacrifices , risking everything . But in this case it's an entire law firm instead of just one guy , and basically they lose the case . John Travolta , ably supported by Bill Macy and others , is Jan Schlichtmann , a " personal injury lawyer " ( we know what that means ) is approached by a woman who , along with eight others in Woburn , have lost children because the drinking water was polluted with toxic waste . He is sympathetic but he demurs , seeing an expensive case from which he will profit only if he wins , and no money in the pockets of the guy who owns the polluting tannery . Then he discovers that the land is owned by W . R . Grace and Beatrice , two mega giant corporations . Between them they own every brand name you can think of . They own Heinz ketchup . Travolta can think of 57 different ways of squeezing $150 million out of them . But , as they say , pride goeth before a fall . The salivating Travolta brings suit and is opposed by Robert Duvall , playing Jerry Facher . ( All of these are real people with real names . ) The movie doesn't give Travolta an obvious flaw like Paul Newman's disillusioned alcoholism in " The Verdict , " but it doesn't hagiographize him either . He has more guts than brains . He gets caught with his pants down a few times when he makes courtroom errors that Facher is teaching his Harvard law students are elementary . ( " Never ask a witness why , unless you already know the answer . " You can learn that from watching Perry Mason . ) This Facher is pretty quick on his feet and he clobbers Travolta's character , all the while smiling politely , seemingly distracted , fiddling with pens , wrapping a string absent-minded around the fraying handle of his ancient briefcase . It's a very good performance . Travolta is good too . We never know how serious he is about his motives , or whether he has any idea what they are . He stares ahead and speaks sternly of " eight dead children " and " looking for justice " , but at a formal meeting with the two mega giant's lawyers he makes such impossible financial demands that they walk out on him - - and he never discussed his plans with his partners . While the jury is out , Duvall offers him TWENTY million bucks to settle and Travolta oozes dignity as he rips up the offer and tosses it in the trash , to Duvall's amusement . Well , he may seem like Gary Cooper in " High Noon , " but when you come right down to it he , like Cooper , is playacting . What happened to the interests of his clients ? Heroic gestures in the pursuit of self-aggrandizement aren't going to help the families of those " dead children " living up there in Nowheresville . Stripped of the frame the film tries to give him - - a selfish man who discovers he has ideals - - Schlichtmann becomes not just an ambulance chaser but an ambulance chaser who overreached . In the end Travolta's firm , largely because of his own intransigence , sees the suit against Beatrice thrown out and has to settle for eight million from W . R . Grace . The meeting between Travolta and Sidney Pollack , playing Grace's representative , is hilarious . Travolta walks into the Harvard Club to meet Pollack , carrying a bundle of facts , all business and formality . But Pollack , like Duval , is way ahead of him in every regard . Man , has Pollack got " condescension " down pat . Pollack : " What kind of Harvard man are you ? " Travolta : " The Cornell kind . " Pollack : " You didn't go to Harvard ? Somebody told me you went to Harvard . Don't get me wrong , Cornell's a fine school . ( Pause ) A damned good school . " In the end , Travolta goes back to personal injury cases , his partners split , and he declares bankruptcy ( after a two-year vacation - - in Hawaii , which the movie omits ) . He devotes a lot of personal time to digging up new evidence but has no resources to pursue leads , so he turns the case over to the Environmental Protection Agency , which finds merit in it , convicts the corporations ' lawyers of various offenses , and levies fines against them . That was in , what , 1988 ? I wonder if the EPA would be so zealous today . Here's an assessment of the present administrator from the organization Earthjustice , a prominent , respectable legal organization . " Governor Leavitt's appointment to head the EPA puts an anti-environmental politician in charge of regulating industries that pollute the nation's air and water , " said Earthjustice Denver attorney Jim Angell . " We know from his history on environmental issues in Utah that his preferred method is to exclude the broader public from the process when he wants to make decisions that could harm the environment . " Of course it's good that the corporate giants were made to pay , even if the amount was the equivalent of a licensure fee . And no need to feel too sorry for Jan Schlichtmann . A book about the case made him famous , and this movie made him even MORE famous - - and rich too . He now lives in the exclusive mansion-besotted suburb of Beverly , Mass . It's quite a good movie . Yes , there's a lot of ambiguity to be found in it , if you don't simply accept it as a Manichaean struggle between black and white , but in that respect it resembles real life , which is rarely anything other than fuzzy .
For history buffs this must be more of a Santa Fe trial . Here is John Brown ( a real historical figure played by Raymond Massey ) demanding money from Boston abolitionists ( also real ) just before the Civil War . Give me the money , he shouts , and I'll start a slave revolution in the upland South . He knows that country . It's filled with hiding places for guerrilla warriors . So he and his handful devoted followers take over the federal arsenal and settle down in Harper's Ferry , Virginia . The tiny town was , and is , a sinkhole at the confluence of two rivers . If you stand in the main street of Harper's Ferry and look in any direction , all you see are tall wooded hills looming over you . It's about the least defensible place on the planet . There are a few African-Americans in the movie . The script has one of them say something like : " Mistuh Brown , he promised us da freedom . But if dis here Kansis is freedom , I wants to go back to Texas where Ah kin live mah lahf in PEACE . " You bet . However , let us skip over the anachronisms - - the absence of muskets , the presence of generic Colt pistols , the fact that Jeb Stuart ( Errol Flynn ) , George Armstrong Custer ( Ronald Reagan ) , Bell , Sheridan , Longstreet , Hood , and Pickett didn't graduate from West Point in the same year - - and examine the movie as a Ding an Sich . The errors of time are lost in the headlong pace of this Western . And it IS a Western , though some scenes are set in the East . There is never any doubt who the good guys are . They're the ones who shoot their pistols jauntily , without aiming , and hit their targets . John Brown and his followers are bad guys , yes , but with mitigation , your Honor . His passion to free the slaves was all right , but his violent methods were all wrong . Every Western , though , must have a genuinely evil guy and in this case it's Van Heflin . His character seems lashed together in haste . At West Point , before he's thrown out , he reads treasonous literature to the other cadets and gets into fist fights ( with Flynn ! ) over the issue of slavery . By the end , he's revealed as a craven money-grabber who only joined Brown's movement for the moolah , and when it's denied him he squeals on Brown to the government . That's known as discontinuity . I speak here not of historical inaccuracy but of dramatic clumsiness . God help me , my phraseology has been contaminated by listening to John Brown's dialog . You ought to see this movie if only for Raymond Massey's overblown portrait of John Brown . He never blinks . His eyes bulge - - and I swear I'm not making this up - - his eyes bulge until the dark irises are completely surrounded by white . I just tried it in the mirror and I can't even come close . There is an attempt at comedy . Its instruments are Alan Hale and Guinn " Big Boy " Williams . It fails dismally . Nothing they say or do would be funny to anyone with a sensibility quotient higher than that of a head of broccoli . The delightful Olivia de Havilland plays " Kit Carson " Halliday , the girl Flynn marries while rival Reagan stands by , shrugs good-naturedly , and smiles . The real Custer later married a smashing brunette named Libby , almost as attractive as de Havilland . It's a straightforward Warners production with Flynn , Reagan , Michael Curtiz , Max Steiner , Perc Westmore , and Sol Polito all hard at work in the factory , turning out their fast , unpretentious , actioners and dramas in their classic style .
Well , just about every kind of quirk you might expect to find in a nice Jewish academic family in Berkeley is tucked away somewhere in this leisurely trip through misunderstandings . Richard Gere , gone white and looking great , does most of the talking and most of the moving . He teaches Hebrew Studies , he coaches his son on the cello , he always cooks dinner at home . ( Pretty liberated , eh ? ) Now Gere isn't frenetic as he sometimes has been , as in , say , " Power " . His buzzing activity mostly stands out because nobody else has much of it . His wife , Juliette Binoche , has lost her family and wanders around with all the substance of a wisp of smoke . It turns out she's covering up some quirky activities , even for a family like this . She has a garage full of broken trinkets she's collected from other people's properties . They hang from the ceiling in a multitude of sparkling threads , tinkling a little bit , as Gere discovers them and goggles at the sight . Then there's the son , Aaron . Gere is a devoutly religious man who would like to be a mystic but is reduced to merely studying Jewish mysticism . But the son ? Well , he's a whiz on the cello . With a father like Gere you could hardly be other than a whiz at whatever he urged you to try . And Aaron is searching for God too . But where does he find God ? In the now-defunct Hare Krishnas . Of course it could have been worse . Aaron might have dug up some suicide cult . But still , for some people it must be getting a bit tiresome to deal with people who have learned that God is communicating with them . Andy Warhol once claimed that he'd been given a dead phone but that God was supposed to be on the other end waiting for his call . Warhol never made the call because he could never think of anything to say . Doctor Fielgut's advice is this : Do find God , if you can , but then whatever he tells you keep it to yourself . Oh , yes . Then there's the little daughter , reserved , soft , vulnerable , unamazing in any way until she discovers that she has some form of synesthesia regarding words . When she hears " cotyledon " defined , she closes her eyes and is swirled about with leaves . When Gere finds this out - - WOW ! TWO geniuses in the family , not including him and Juliette Binoche who is " a scientist . " Aaron and his cello are put on the back burner while Gere hovers over his daughter and tells her emphatically that God is in the letters . In the end she teaches him a valuable lesson too , humility . There's something distasteful about judged performances like spelling bees though . I say this not only because Barbara Lukashinsky came in first , to my second , in a fifth-grade spelling bee , just because I misspelled a stupid word like " nickel " and she got it right . No , it's not that at all , even though she didn't deserve first prize . It's that like other judged performances , spelling bees are a zero-sum game . One can only " win " at the expense of someone else . It's competition in its purest form . You win the prize by beating everyone else . But who wins a prize for cooperation ? Or self sacrifice ? Roger Bannister was the first person to run a 4-minute mile . Does anyone remember who was the second runner to break four minutes ? It isn't that competition is necessarily bad per se . It can boost team solidarity and even be fun . The main problem with spelling bees is that they encourage lazy , categorical thinking about either " victory " or " defeat " , while " compromise " has no part in the contest . This is a pretty slow movie . It's almost European . It's stuffed with far too many themes , like the kaleidoscope ( did I spell that right ? ) that Binoche hands down to daughter Emily . Impossible to grasp them all . But it's a nice change to see a film that challenges us .
It's a fast-paced thriller about a mob of Himmler's goons in post-war Berlin who kidnap an American GI , the son of a big wheel in the ferris business , and who want to trade the kid back for a pair of burnt-out old anti-Nazi Germans so they can torture and kill them as revenge . Get that ? If not , it's not too important . The movie will make things almost clear enough . It's a lot of fun to watch . The acting required is negligible - - the plot is everything . Broderick Crawford does his " junkman " number from an earlier movie , a blustering materialist who comes to Germany to cut through the red tape and see that his kidnapped son is returned regardless of the cost . The price is the return of those two anti-Nazis , one of them already deliberately blinded by the Gestapo because of his involvement in the plot to assassinate Hitler . By the end of the movie , Crawford has seen the human face of Cold War intrigue and decides that the elderly couple should be saved . His feelings , of course , are as irrelevant after his change of heart as they were before . The job is in the hands of stern but human Major Gregory Peck . Peck snaps out orders and calls everyone by diminutives - - Stansman is " Stanzy , " Frau Hoffmeier is " Hoffy , " Colonel Ludovich is " Ludy " , Petrochine is " Petey " , and so on , so obsessively that one wonders if Nunally Johnson actually visualized the script . There's a little hole in the plot too , or maybe it's somewhere in my frontal lobes . Peck discovers that his former girl friend Hoffy is actually a spy for the Russkies ( or for Himmler's thugs , it's not clear ) . And she realizes at a critical point that Peck knows . How does she realize it ? I don't know . In the scene , Peck seems to do nothing that would arouse her suspicions . Maybe she is a Jungian intuitive type . But who cares ? You can't really take any of this seriously , not even the deaths that crop up in the story , because we have never seen the people who die . And the film is leavened with occasional shots of humor . Barnaby Jones - - I mean Buddy Ebson as the wisecracking sergeant keeps poking his head into a room full of guys listening to the radio and asks who's ahead - - the Yankees again ? And Ebson also has to go through one of those scenes in which he samples a bottle of absinthe , grimaces , shudders , and starts to speak in a hoarse whisper before clearing his throat and speaking normally . There is a running gag about a doctor who is trying to quit smoking by never carrying any cigarettes around , except that he keeps bumming them off other people . In my opinion the most amusing scene is one in which a British intelligence agent visits Peck and the two of them have soft drinks . On his way out , the Brit pauses at the door then walks back and leans over the secretary and asks what that stuff was in the brown bottle . " Root beer , sir , " she replies . He thinks for a moment , then comments , " Curious sort of stuff , don't you think ? " and leaves the room . Enjoyable minor film kind of drags you along with its quick unfolding of events .
The story is pretty threadbare . Three roommates or flatmates ( Eccleston , MacGregor , and Fox ) find their fourth roommate or flatmate dead , evidently a suicide . They're pretty nonchalant about the naked dead body in bed . They go through his drawers and his luggage and find thousands of pounds sterling , which gives them ideas about disposing of the body and keeping the cash . They matter-of-factly saw the body into parts , disposing of the hands and feet in acid , bashing in the face , and bury it in a shallow grave in the kind of densely wooded area where all dead bodies are found , as this one soon enough is . One of the three conspirators , Eccleston , a creepy guy with glasses to begin with , starts acting - - well , a little twisted . He sequesters himself in the attic and drills holes through the floor so that he can peek down on the other two . Two business-like goons looking for the missing cash show up and are killed by Eccleston , and disposed of in the same way as their erstwhile roommate or flatmate . The police find their remains as well . The police investigate . Things get a little more tense . Eccleston takes up with Fox and they are about to leave for Rio together , but it develops that there have been one or two , or maybe three , double crosses concerning the lolly . Everybody winds up dead . What this film has going for it are a number of things . For one , the performances are uniformly splendid . The principles and subordinates do a fine job . And Kerry Fox is attractive in a non-conventional way , slightly plump , but with magnetic eyelids . MacGregor looks as if he stopped having zits the day before yesterday . The direction is more than just functional . I think we notice it mainly when the film deals with the two detectives . There is one shot of these two goofy looking characters - - one who looks like Happy of the Seven Dwarfs and the other like a scarecrow - - seated next to one another on a sofa . They are silent . The shot lasts so long that the image itself turns slightly grotesque . But then these two detectives are really Doozies . Their dialog is almost surreal at times . " Only three people in the flat , not four , " says the senior detective to the other , " Write that down , would you ? ( Long pause ) You can use either letters or numbers . ( Long pause ) Which did you use ? " Answer : " Both . " It's quite stylishly done , especially given the budget , and worth catching .
The usual capricious nonsense , this time about a school of ballroom dancing that recruits lonely bachelors as students and then bumps them off at graduation and replaces each with a foreign agent . Steed enrolls as a client . Mrs . Peel gets a job as instructor . Clues include a rose tattoo and a garlic sausage . Bizarre , yes . This episode has two things going for it , in addition to its intrinsic appeal . One is that Emma Peel's bare foot is cast in plaster in order to create a pair of hand-made dancing pumps . The man at the shoe shop casts Mrs . Peel's foot but not before examining it with a fetishist's fascination . He speaks in a fey continental accent to the foot as he caresses it , scolding the toes for speaking to him , " Naughty chatterboxes . " The second is the studio's alcoholic band leader . There are few people who can play drunks on the screen while making them both funny and believable but this guy is one of them - - maybe his name is Larry Cross . In the neighborhood of roles like this , Lee Marvin is his only neighbor that I'm aware of . He stumbles precariously around . He smiles but in a way that signals confusion . His every word must be completed by someone else . It's all pretty amusing .
Anyone seeing this will recognize it as a variation on " Body Heat . " In some ways it's better , but in most it's not as good . " Body Heat " had several things going for it that " China Moon " does not . Its sultry score was distinctive . This score is generically blue . So's the photography . In " Body Heat , " the images actually looked hot . In the café scenes you could almost smell the humidity and the fat molecules hanging in the air , although in fact they were probably shot through a Vaseline-coated lens . Here , instead of heat , we get a harsh icy blue tint to many of the scenes . When we are out of doors , in the rain and mud , under the blue lights , it seems positively chilly . ( And the director was a photographer himself ! ) The acting in both films is mixed . Kathleen Turner sounds breathless but doesn't exude a particularly high level of heat energy , whereas Bill Hurt is excellent as a dumb lawyer . Ed Harris here is less inventive that Hurt but does a solid job . As for Madeleine Stowe . It isn't easy to measure physical beauty accurately . Lately psychologists have been fiddling around with various mathematical ratios based on the idea that facial symmetry per se is attractive , but the results so far have been mostly good for laughs . A more reliable , if rougher , way to get at it is to filter one person's appearance through someone else's perception of it . Build an ordinal scale of ranks . You can get a pretty good idea of how attractive a face looks if you ask 100 members of the opposite sex to rank it from one to ten , ten being highest . Stowe , I should think , would come out pretty high on such a scale , although symmetry would have absolutely nothing to do with it , anymore than it would with Nastassja Kinsky or Gwyneth Paltrow . Not a bit of it . Stowe's anthracite irises are slightly crossed under their long black lashes , and her lips are appealingly askew . She may not be symmetrical , but man she could play a Franklin stove and get away with it . The plot , such as it is , isn't as filled with the kind of intrigue and uncertainties of the original model . It has a certain familiar mechanical quality to it . Much more stuff about switched and hidden guns . And it ends in a kind of tragic shootout , instead of a full-throated blast of irony . It's also a bit hard to follow , in a way the original was not . Until the shooting of Stowe's husband , I could understand all of it . Stowe genuinely loved Harris . After that , when the frame begins to take shape , I became confused about when the sinister plot was planned and hatched . And why and when did Stowe's emotion toggle from love to exploitation ? The story no longer made sense , having lost its continuity with the first half . And , surprisingly , it lacks evocative touches and local color . No tinkling wind chimes . No humor to speak of . And Florida ? It could as easily have been Nebraska .
This was Otto Preminger's and 20th-Century-Fox's follow-up to the highly successful " Laura " of the previous year . Many of the same personnel were involved , both on the screen and behind the camera . David Raksin , who'd written the theme song for " Laura " ( " not classical , but sweet " ) wrote " Slowly " for this one . Dana Andrews stars again . The bug-eyed maid from " Laura " - - Effie or whatever her name was - - appears here briefly as a bug-eyed neighbor . The themes have one or two isomorphisms . A cop falls in love with a girl he can't have . The girl is murdered . But that's about it . " Laura " was a one-of-a-kind achievement . This film doesn't quite cohere . The screenplay is less focused , because the murder doesn't take place at the beginning , so there is no central mystery . Instead we have Dana Andrews playing an exploitative and selfish meany , hanging around a small town with no money and no prospects , in hope of getting the local slut ( Linda Darnell ) to run off with him . Andrews , who is an advance man for a phony spiritualist , can't even afford his own hotel room so he appropriates the shabby quarters of Olin Howland . Now , you may or may not recognize the name of Olin Howland , but you will recognize the face and the voice . It will be more than usually easy if you think back to the science-fiction Big Bug thriller " Them " and imagine hearing a hospitalized dipsomaniac singing , " Make me a sergeant in charge of the booze ! " and hiding under the covers . Where was I ? Oh , yes . I was wondering where Dana Andrews was . And Linda Darnell , the sloe-eyed slut . And Alice Faye , the blond contrast to Darnell's dark beauty . Alice Faye doesn't have much money but Andrews plans , successfully , to marry her so he can have access to whatever she owns . This , you see , will give him a stake which he can then use to run off with that brunette baggage from the hamburger shop . Fortunately , before he commits any irreparable crime , Andrews comes to his senses and recognizes that there are such things in the world as truth , beauty , goodness - - and Alice Faye . Actually , Faye is rather bland compared to the dangerous and treacherous Darnell . I could have understood Andrews going through with his original plan , but then that wouldn't have been Dana Andrews with his chiseled features , up-tilted Dick Tracy chin , and heroic baritone . ( It might easily have been a whining and manipulative Kirk Douglas . ) All of these intrigues and romances take up about three quarters of the film . Once Darnell is out of the way - - her head bashed in - - a local cop ( Charles Bickford ) enters the picture , and he's pretty rough trade too . He wallops suspects around , trying to force them to confess . But it turns out that he's hiding a secret which , in the end , undoes him . A curious irony , if I remember correctly , is that Bickford himself had been involved in a homicide in his youth . At any rate , the murder is solved , and Dana Andrews ends up a wiser man for his having stuck around this small town for an extra few days . ( Also , a richer man , perhaps not as coincidentally as the rest of us would like to believe . ) I had the same uneasy feeling at the end of " Fallen Angel " that I did at the end of " Laura . " What happens after Dana Andrews marries Gene Tierney in " Laura " and , for the hundredth time , she begs him to go to a concert and he insists on a ball game ? And what happens here when the trickster Andrews realizes that the virginal teetotaler Faye is actually pretty cloying ? Still , if it's not " Laura , " it's enjoyable in its own right . The first hour or so will keep you wondering where this all can possibly be headed .
It used to be doctors that boasted about the literary artists that rose from their ranks - - William Carlos Williams , Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle , Michael Crighton , Frank Slaughter . ( Frank Slaughter ? ) Now it's coming to be lawyers . Back in 1959 , " Anatomy of a Murder " was a lonely best seller . Lately there has been a cascade of more or less autobiographical books about lawyers from the likes of Turow and Gresham . And the movies inevitably follow the bucks , I mean the books . I wish Turow had used a little more imagination in cooking up the names for his characters , especially since they seem designed to represent a little microcosm of ethnic identities . I guess Sabich is properly Polish , and Horgan irretrievably Irish , and lawyer Stern can be a Jewish lawyer who looks and speaks like a Puerto Rican . Polhemus may be a little unusual but not everyone can claim a hyphenized national allegiance . The attempt is weak with the Italian characters , though . Molto ? Too much for me to believe . And Della Guardia is plumb wrong . La Guardia is an occupational name , meaning " guard , " pretty much like " Steward " in English . But " de la " indicates a place name , like " von " in German or " van " in Dutch . " Della " and " Guardia " are a mismatched couple . " From the guard " ? It would be like an Italian novelist making up a character name like " Cookson " or " Bakerson . " The animal doesn't exist . Oh - - the movie ? It's okay . It rolls along in its sexy , suspenseful , stereotypical way , an efficient example of how to reconstruct in an unidentifiable manner a story already familiar from " The Big Clock " and " No Way Out " and " Where the Sidewalk Ends " and a couple of others . Harrison Ford mopes efficiently through his part . I like Brian Dennehy a lot better as a nice guy than a heavy . Raul Julia is reassuring , almost comforting , in the role of Ford's defense counsel . If I were to be tried for murder I would want him and his underplayed confidence and his big dark gentle eyes to represent me rather than the skulky guilty-looking Ford . Bonny Bedelia is okay . Greta Scacchi is a knockout , so to speak , so it's a double tragedy when she gets her head bashed in . John Spencer is always reliable - - or was . He died a month ago . Too bad , a reliable New Jerseyish everyman . It's worth catching but not worth commenting further on .
It's an unusual movie for MGM , known best for its family movies . Think " Little Women " and " Meet Me in St . Louis . " This is pretty dark stuff , visually and otherwise . Van Heflin is a contractor in a Los Angeles suburb , when Los Angeles still had suburbs . He's evidently the kind of contractor who's best at turning orange groves into monopoly houses so he's rich and respectable , with a beautiful young wife ( Janet Leigh ) and a child . He leads a life on the sunny side of the brand new street in Santa Lisa . However we soon find that he's being tracked by the lame Robert Ryan . Ryan has black glittering eyes and carries an automatic and seems to be sneering all the time . Ryan tracks Heflin to a nice lake up in the mountains , then back to his home , then to a contractor's convention in Los Angeles . Heflin doesn't find out that he's being followed until half an hour or so into the film , but he realizes at once the reason for the pursuit . Heflin rushes in a panic through the empty wind-swept streets of LA at night , looking for the courage to kill himself , finally falling in with hooker Mary Astor and her louche friends , one of whom ( Barry Kroger ) he hires to wipe out Ryan before Ryan can get to him . But he's so fagged out , half drunk , when he makes the deal that the next day he must have Astor explain it to him . When he stumbles back to his house in the suburbs , Janet Leigh greets him with a big smile and chirps , " That suit will have to go to the cleaners . And you're a mess . " Later we see her knitting socks or something . Those were the days . So what did Van Heflin do and why is Robert Ryan going to kill him ? They were POWs in the same Stalag . Heflin found that Ryan and a dozen others were to try an escape through a tunnel that the Germans knew about . Heflin couldn't dissuade Ryan , though other POWs had been killed trying the same route . So Captain Heflin went to the Germans and , after getting them to promise to go easy on the would-be escapees , he informed on them . The Germans fed him for that , while others were near starvation , but Heflin didn't care . He ate . He even ate while the Nazis went back on their word , bayoneted the escapees , and left them writhing and whining like run-over dogs . Ryan managed to escape by playing dead and now Ryan seeks revenge for himself and the dead men . Heflin pays for his sins by getting himself and Barry Kroger killed in the process of saving Ryan's life . This is a more interesting film than it seems at the start . Oh , we know more or less right away that Heflin has done something bad , but Ryan's trench-coated , limping , scowling figure is so menacing that he seems to be not much more than a stock villain . You know , maybe Heflin quit the gang without permission or something . Or maybe he squealed on the boss . But , no . It's a more grown-up film than that . Heflin can no longer remember whether he informed to save the lives of his men or just for a loaf of bread . The evil influence here , Kroger as the hit man aside , is war . War seems to have a habit of corrupting at least as many of its participants as it ennobles , so it should probably be avoided . The photography , by Robert Surtees , is exceptional . Evocative location shooting , from a lake shimmering under the sun , to seedy urban streets along which the wind machines blow shreds of paper . Fred Zinneman directed . The problem with the movie , the thing that keeps it from being better than it is , is the dialog . It's flat and strictly functional . It doesn't give any of the characters much depth . There is nothing in this movie , for instance , to equal the scene in " Crossfire " in which Paul Kelly comes up with his surreal monologues . All the performances are good but none are memorable .
I can't remember much of " La Cage au Folles " , the , um , mother of this film except that Marcel Bozuffi was extremely funny in demonstrating the way men walk . But this remake is funny on its own terms . You may or may not leave prancing to " We Are Family " but there are scenes that are almost certain to make you chuckle . Story : A young man and his girl want to get married . The girl's parents ( Gene Hackman and Dianne Weist ) are a stuffy self-righteous senator and his dim wife . The young man's parents ( Robin Williams and Nathan Lane ) are a gay couple living together over the Miami drag club they own and in which the " wife " stars . Senator Bibb or Bilbo or Clagget or whatever his name is knows nothing of this arrangement , but he and his wife are invited to visit the gay couple . Williams and Lane and their friends try desperately to decorate their Miami apartment in a stereotypically masculine fashion ( a giant crucifix replaces the faux Gaugin painting of a gay man ) . There are only a few hours in which the previously married Williams , who is the genuine father of the young man , has an opportunity to try turning the flamboyantly gay Lane into a simulacrum of masculinity . The attempt fails . Williams and Lane wind up as Mr . and Mrs . Coleman , with Lane in drag , entertaining Hackman and Weist through an excruciatingly and very amusing dinner , before all is revealed . Senator Hackman , up for reelection , finds a street full of tabloid reporters and TV crews waiting for him on the street and is forced to escape by posing as a drag queen during the show in Williams ' night club - - named The Bird Cage . I suppose there must have been a lot of laughs squeezed out of the shock value of the original . I'd give it bonus points for that . This is a remake and doesn't get the bonus points of the earlier French version . Much of the material dealing with the expressive aspects of homosexuality - - the lifted pinky , the mincing walk , the squealing voice - - aren't really funny in themselves . And in fact the director , Mike Nichols , and his crew are most successful with that catastrophic dinner scene in which Hackman , Weist , Lane , Williams , and the young couple sit around a formal table with dinnerware showing copies of Greek paintings in which naked men are sodomizing each other in a daisy chain . The chef and butler is Hank Azaria who does his best but whose laughs come chiefly from pratfalls . Of course Robin Williams does a hilarious take-off on a gay man , but here he's in the butch role and must be more restrained . He's good at embarrassment and tension too , making excuses to run into the kitchen , excoriate the chef , and meanwhile guzzling Irish whiskey out of the bottle . Surprisingly , Gene Hackman's performance as the alternately charmed and astounded Senator Keeler is among the most effective in the film . The first minutes of the dinner scene have everyone sitting decorously in the living room while Hackman tries to start a conversation and the others stare at him with hellish anxiety . " Yes , it was a nice drive down here from Washington . . . We came to see the change in seasons . . . yes . . . First Virginia , then Tennessee . . . The foliage was beautiful . . . The leaves . . . some red . . . the road , always black , cutting through the green . . . The foliage of Pennsylvania is nice too . . . Of course , I've always thought the foliage of Ohio was underrated . . . The different regions of this great country of ours . . . . " Nathan Lane as Williams ' " wife " isn't bad but someone made a decision to play him cute as well as funny . It was probably an error . And the direction is at times a little heavy handed . In the original the character was hysterical but never cute or lovable . Think for a moment of the introduction of Dustin Hoffman in drag in " Tootsie . " It's a crowded New York sidewalk and dozens of diverse people are marching towards the telephoto lens , and we only gradually become aware of - - HEY , that's Dustin Hoffman in that DRESS . It's very surprising and very funny . Here , Senator Hackman is ensconced in this apartment with a couple of gays and he's whining about there being no way out except through the throng of reporters waiting for him . " Not quite , " says Nathan Lane in a meaningful close up . Cut to the floor show of the drag club downstairs . During the exuberance of " We Are Family " the camera noses through a handful of male dancers in drag to settle finally on the over-sized blond wig of a man with his back to the camera . It's entirely predictable . It's out of a Bob Hope movie . We know what's going to happen the moment Nathan Lane gets his cute idea and the sense of astonishment is thrown away . Well - - some scenes are funnier than others , but the funny ones make this a worthwhile watch .
Well , Jack Nicholson is no Lawrence Talbot . In a way that's too bad because the original wolfman was trashy fun . This one is more ambitious and expensive , and it kind of loses its way . The first half is a treat , and is witty too . Nicholson plays his schleppy character , someone without daring or imagination . It's no wonder that his wife is bored with him and his boss is firing him . Not that he's doing a bad job as editor-in-chief of a prominent New York publisher , just that he shows no guts . After being bitten by a wolf one night , he begins to notice slight changes in his appearance and his character . ( He checks it out with a doctor but otherwise treats these changes kind of nonchalantly , if you ask me . ) For one thing , he sleeps most of the day and works best at night . His sexual appetite returns and he begins to get frisky around his wife again . It would be interesting to know a little bit more about the details of THAT . He can smell alcohol on someone's breath from several feet away . He can hear conversations on the other side of a window across a wide hallway . He walks more quickly , speaks more forcefully , and is overall more animated , so to speak . He even gets a neat-looking growth of new hair across his balding forehead , and he as he pauses to look admiringly at himself in the mirror , patting his belly with satisfaction , beaming at his new hair , he remarks , " And by the way , I'm not only the president of the Men's Hair Club . I'm also a member . " His level of aggression rises too . He outwits the nefarious subordinate ( James Spader ) who's been plotting to replace him , and he blackmails his boss into rehiring him and giving him even more authority . And after sloughing off his unfaithful wife , he meets and mates with the boss's lovely daughter ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) , who looks half feral on her own . The scheming and exploration of Nicholson's new personality are the best-written part of the movie . The rest of it gets kind of screwy , as if the writers had begun to run out of steam . Nobody seems able to determine what kind of movie this is supposed to be . Nicholson's wolfiness turns dangerous . He may have ripped the throat out of his errant wife during a gibbous moon . We KNOW he's chased down a deer and eaten the thing alive because he wakes up covered with blood , in an unpleasant scene . After he bites Spader , Spader begins to turn into a werewolf too , only uglier and meaner than Nicholson's werewolf . The two werewolves get into a dogfight over Pfeiffer and Spader is about to win when Pfeiffer appears on the scene and shoots him and kills him . ( Where'd she get the silver bullets from - - the Lone Ranger ? ) Nicholson has now turned permanent werewolf and after a few friendly growls of thanks in Pfeiffer's direction he hustles off alone to join the rest of the werewolves in the forest . Somebody - - I forget who - - has also bitten Pfeiffer , which is understandable , and then she begins to morph into a wolf and leaves to join Nicholson in the woods where , presumably , they will live happily ever after and produce litter after litter of pups doggy-style . I can't help it if the second half of the movie sounds a little nutty . It has suddenly turned into a half-hearted horror movie with slashing fangs , a woman threatened with rape , Nicholson shaking frantically at the bars of his cage , a dead body in a pool , and similar inanities . None of the performances are at fault . Nicholson is pretty convincing as he gradually morphs . And Spader is great as the loyal friend who turns out to be a backstabbing phony . Too bad their efforts are put into a scenario that devolves into something that makes less sense than Lawrence Talbot's predicament .
It's divided into three parts . ( 1 ) Woody and an inept gang set up a cookie store as a front , to be run by Woody's wife , Tracy Ullman , while they tunnel through the store's basement into the bank next door . ( 2 ) The robbery fails but the cookie store succeeds beyond anyone's imagination and Woody and Tracey become rich . ( 3 ) Tracey falls for a phony art dealer and Woody takes up with his sister-in-law , May , Elaine May . When the cookie franchise goes bankrupt the couple get together and it all ends happily . The first part seems somewhat detached from the rest of the movie . Most of the main characters disappear from the film in the two later sections . It's almost a film in itself . And actually I think it just about was - - called " Larceny , Inc . " back in the 1940s . Part two is transitional and is the most nearly serious ( and least amusing ) part . Ullman wants to learn how to be classy from Hugh Jackman but is flatly unable to overcome her innate vulgarity . My God , her taste is awful . Woody is forced to wear clothes that are in themselves lessons of dissonance - - a royal blue jacket with canary yellow trousers . He refuses to look at a wall on which an abstract expressionless painting hangs and has the butler read him the time from the clock hanging next to the dreadful thing . The third part revolves around Woody's plan to switch a cheap fake for a terminally expensive necklace at a fancy party . The plot is silly but Elaine May carries the day as a complete dodo . Some of the gags are simple minded and others a little more complex . I'll give an example of an exchange between May and a guest at the formal party that illustrates both kinds of jokes . May has been ordered by Woody to keep quiet and play lookout and to say nothing except maybe about the weather . Something like this . May : " There's a warm front moving over the city . " Guest : " You know , you're the most charming woman I've met since my dear , departed wife . I noticed you when you first entered the room , the way you carried yourself . " May : " You can't carry yourself . That's physically impossible . " Guest , laughing : " Really , you remind me so much of Helen . " May : " Who's Helen ? Was she your wife or just some woman who died ? " Later May tells Woody : " He said I reminded him of his dead wife . I assume he meant while she was still alive . " There's still another reference to this exchange but I think I'll quit . This is one of Woody's better recent comedies . He's the nervous street-wise schlub that he was in " Broadway Danny Rose . " If you liked that one , you ought to enjoy this one .
Henry Hull , as a newspaper publisher and Jesse's friend , is giving the speech at Jesse James ' burial . " We're PROUD of Jesse around here , " he shouts . " I reckon all America's a little proud of him . I dunno why . Maybe it's because he was bold - - and lawless - - the way we all like to be , once in a while . " Nothing like being bold and lawless . The middle-class James family in Clay County , Missouri , were slave owners and Jesse fought on the side of guerrillas who were sometimes lawless even by Civil War standards . After the war , Jesse was wounded while trying to surrender , and thereafter lawlessness became a career . He was more or less turned into a Robin Hood by a newspaper editor in Kansas who had fantasies of restoring the Confederacy . But that's all history and history is all conjecture . Any pretense towards factuality in this movie can be easily shrugged off and a viewer can sit back and enjoy a bang-pow Western full of well-crafted scenes of shooting and galloping horses and drama about loyalty and love . Some scenes are positively comic . During the hold up of a train , Bob Ford ( John Carradine ) walks down the aisle collecting cash from the terrified passengers . " Thank you ! Thank you kindly , sir . Hurry , please . That's a fine pocket watch , sir . " And there is an engaging meeting between Randolph Scott as the lawman in Liberty , Missouri , and Tyrone Power as the skedaddling Jesse , in which Scott intuits Jesse's real identity but pretends not to know it . Some of the shots are spectacular - - twice , a horse and its rider slide off a cliff into a river , tumbling over every which way , a distance like unto that dropped by Paul Newman and Robert Redford in " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid . " Tyrone Power is as handsome as Newman or Redford . Randolph Scott is manly , honest , and wise . Henry Fonda , as Jesse's brother Frank , is taciturn , spits tobacco , and acts like The Man With No Name . Henry Hull , as the cantankerous newspaper editor , paraphrases Shakespeare to amusing effect , " If we are ever going ' to have law and order in this town , the first thing we got to do is take all the lawyers and shoot ' em down like dogs . " The movie was shot in splendid Technicolor on location in Jesse James ' country . The sentiment with which the film ends is stupid . We all want to be like Jesse James . Right - - we all want to carry guns and shoot people we don't like , or just strangers who get in our way . But the protagonist of this story isn't Jesse James . It's Tyrone Power acting out a revenge motive and he's fundamentally a good guy , so we can afford to applaud him because the character doesn't exist . Let's cheer for Robin Hood too , while we're at it .
It's better than it has a right to be . Kimberley Joyce ( Wood ) with " the face of an angel " persuades two of her classmates to sue for sexual advances a disliked English and Drama teacher at their elite high school , so that his reputation is ruined ( even if they lose , as Wood figures out ) and they achieve an early boost in their career goals as actresses . It's pretty witty in a teen-age comedy kind of way but rather murkier . " All it takes to become an actress is beauty , talent , and the willingness to sleep with somebody you otherwise wouldn't . " And : " Listen to me carefully . ( Silence ) That's the sound of me not caring . " And Wood's father ( James Woods ) having his filthy phone conversation interrupted when his wife walks in , and being forced to improvise a harmless conversation . " Yeah , yeah . Okay , Heshie . Shalom . Right , I'll see you at , uhh , at the mezzuzah . " The direction , the editing , and the innovative musical score all combine to give a further gloss to the performers and the script . Elitism , wealth , adolescent jealousy , publicity seeking , shallow beauty , a lack of morals , selfishness , the media , air headed ambition , reckless parents , the law , political correctness , homosexual intrigue - - all are pinned to the board with the precision of a dead butterfly . But , man , it's dark . One of the three girls , having brought shame to her strict , devout Palestinian immigrant family , shoots herself , leaving a message behind on the chalk board : " We are all sinners , " in Arabic . No one emerges from the plot unsinged . And the reason for it all ? Here the movie falls apart , during the last few minutes . It switches from a critique of our values to a more traditional tale with Wood the evil mastermind who plotted everyone's doom . " The world is an orchestra and I feel like the conductor . " There's no nudity in the film , but it's pretty raunchy . The dialog is vulgar too . " I'd guess that munching underage rug is a good way to get fired . " But much of the wit depends exactly on that sexuality and vulgarity . These are three fifteen-year-old girls , barely out of their adolescent growth spurt , and they know ALL ABOUT IT . It's scary . They know more about it than I knew when I was - - well , let's see - - when I was SIXteen ! They've managed to pass from being innocent to being jaded without ever having gone through any period of florescence . They are so clever . Asked to explain a loud anti-Semitic remark ( " At least my father isn't a money-grubbing shyster Jew lawyer ! " ) , Wood looks remorseful and says , " My father is a racist . I guess I picked it up at home . " Her interrogator nods his head - - " It always starts with the parents . " I had to listen carefully because she has a tendency to speak in hasty bursts with a valley accent , like a small motorcycle revving up or a German MG42 firing . All kinds of inconvenient phonemes are eleded . " I still feel bad " comes out as " I stuffle bed . " Wood is a beautiful young woman , of course , but although James Woods has a small role I think it may be his best film performance to date . He is hilarious , whether exploding with anger or squirming , but it sounds utterly believable . He has a theory that his new Jewish colleagues are sending signals in Yiddish to one another and disguising them as coughing spells - - and he gives a side-splitting imitation . The movie , alas , loses its grip at the end and goes for pathos . The movie isn't aimed only at teenagers , thank God , although they'll probably like it and find at least some of it familiar . But they'll mostly miss some of the film's points , like the characters themselves , which attuned adults will not . Kind of a cross between " Clueless " and " Heathers . "
This intermittently and sometimes very funny send up of cheap movie making was written by , and stars , Steve Martin . He's pretty good , and so are the other performers . Loved Eddie Murphy as the loser / brother of Kit Ramsey . The film is efficiently directed . The humor , as in a lot of Steve Martin's stuff in The New Yorker , depends on incongruities and irony . The incongruity begins with the title of the film-within-a-film that Martin is supposed to be directing - - " Chubby Rain . " ( Cf . , " Cruel Shoes . " ) The irony shows up in scenes like the post-coital murmurs between Martin and Heather Graham as a would-be actress sleeping her way to the top . " I love you . I promise you I'll never use you , " she tells him . " And I will never betray your trust , " he swears , after just having pocketed her credit card . Frank Oz did a good job on the direction . The scene is which an Eddie Murphy look alike ( Eddie Murphy ) is told to run across a multiple-lane freeway full of speeding cars and trucks is nearly perfectly done . Not just the idea but the set up and execution . The editing couldn't be better . Oz had to transpose that scene from a more-or-less detailed written screenplay into two dimensional images . Sometimes the script gives Oz an easier job than at others . As the end of the film approaches the pace becomes frantic and there were times when I lost it . Something to do with aliens and pod people . ( One shot is lifted directly from " Invasion of the Body Snatchers . " ) Martin is a bright and imaginative guy , obviously . His humor borders on the fantastic . Things take place that are physically impossible . And the jokes are liable to be over the head of a less alert audience . I mean , are the kids really going to get the connection between MindBust and Dianetics ? Will they recognize the allusion to " the pod people " ? He's rather like a West Coast Woody Allen , without the serious side , but more of a physical actor . His notion of what's funny is more literary than cinematic , bent slightly towards the late S . J . Perelman . I thought Martin's first film , " The Jerk , " was a disaster but there were scenes and dialog in this one that had me laughing out loud . When Eddie Murphy , as a famous movie star , is offered a script , he counts up all the k's in the text , divides by three , and comes up with the number of times the KKK is mentioned in code . No wonder he winds up at MindBust's " Celebrity Rest Home " . Not all the jokes are so successful , but it's a good-natured and diverting comedy - - better than I'd anticipated .
Jeff Bridges plays a professor at George Washington University in Washington , DC , living a peaceful , suburban existence with his girl friend and his son . He teaches a course in " Terrorism , " which , in reality , would have to be called " Selected Social Problems " or something like that . His deceased wife was an FBI agent killed in a shoot out with some gun hoarders who turned out to be innocent of any crime . You see , it's all mixed up , but he's doing as well as he can . Next door , in this splendidly barren environment , lives Tim Robbins , an architect , and his wife , Joan Cusack . They're a nice couple . They're sympathetic to Bridges ' issues but they don't butt into anyone else's affairs . They form a nice bond with Bridges ' son , so Bridges begins to trade visits and barbecues with them . This all takes about half an hour and is quite nicely done . It is as boring as hell . Not the movie , but the life style depicted . I can't stand polite conversations over backyard barbecues or dinners at which the two women talk about raising children and the two men describe the work they do . Speaking of work , it seems to Bridges that perhaps Robbins has been fibbing just a little about the job he's doing . In the Robbins ' kitchen , Bridges uncovers a blueprint on the table and Robbins covers it again , saying that it's the Reston Mall , something he's currently designing . Well , Bridges knows a blueprint of an office building when he sees one , and he has just seen one . Why would Robbins lie about something like that ? One discordant note in the social symphony leads ineluctably to another . Robbins appears to be getting mail addressed to someone else . He dismisses the letters by saying the writer was confusing him with another man . But , let's not forget , Bridges is paranoid , so he begins looking into Robbins ' real identity . It turns out to be a pretty crummy one but I won't give any details . This would have been a good movie for teens , had it been more shabbily done , less expensive , and dealt with WITCHES or SATANISTS or VAMPIRES next door . As I recall , there have been several popular movies along those lines . But then the action scenes at the climax would be missing , and the kids would have to settle for a blood feast instead of a tumultuous series of explosions and showers of debris . You can't have everything , you know . The movie was released in 1999 , a good year for terrorism in America , though more was yet to come . There had been the World Trade Center bombing in 1993 and , a bit later , Timothy McVeigh's destruction of the Murrah Building in OK City . Most of us are properly horrified by such acts , but not too much . Some of us seem to demand that the violence only be directed against the proper targets , as when a popular columnist joked , " My only regret with Timothy McVeigh is he did not go to the New York Times building . " ( Ann Coulter , New York Observer , / 2002 . ) Robbins and his family are part of us . A bad part , but definitely lurking around somewhere , and maybe not even as far away as next door .
" Out of the Fog . " The classic title for a noir , which this is not . Instead it's basically a stagy story of two quiet elderly men ( John Qualen and Thomas Mitchell ) who enjoy taking their outboard motor boat out of Sheepshead Bay for night-time fishing . Mitchell has a nagging wife ( Aline McMahon ) and a bored , impatient daughter ( Ida Lupino ) who works for the phone company . Both men have dreams of getting away from it all , buying a large boat and getting out into the Gulf stream , where it's always daylight . ( Here , it's always night , and always foggy . ) Enter the small-time extortionist , John Garfield , who hits the two guys up for five dollars a week for " protection " of their small boat . Garfield also begins squiring around Ida Lupino , throwing his money around , bringing her orchids ( " five dollars for flowers that don't smell " ) and alienating her from her honest boyfriend , Eddie Albert . Garfield learns from Lupino that Mitchell has saved up $190 towards that big fishing boat , and he extorts that too . Mitchell and Quaylen plot Garfield's death in a Russian spritz bad in Brooklyn , while Kropotkin , George Tobias , carries on cheerfully and endlessly in the background about how he's just become " a bankrupt . " In the end , neither Mitchell nor Qualen can murder the guy , who falls overboard and dies accidentally , conveniently leaving behind his wallet full of ill-gotten dough . The play was written by Irwin Shaw , who has left a legacy of some neat short stories and novels . ( Read " The Girls in Their Summer Dresses " at once . ) Many of the cast and crew came from the Group Theater , a fashionable leftist organization at the time , but if anyone can sniff out a hint of communism here he must be a bloodhound or a paranoid . In the play , the two old guys managed to actually murder the thoroughly obnoxious Garfield but in the film the code wouldn't permit it . Nobody will win any medals for this production but it's tightly written and professionally acted . Or - - let's put it this way - - if you liked Sidney Kingsley's " Dead End , " you ought to enjoy this one . It even has one of the Dead End Kids in it , playing a waiter . Particularly enjoyable is the brief scene in the Russian bath , with George Tobias , whose monologue is really pretty funny , and its boisterous comedy is refreshing in this rather quiet , low-key tale of crime and adaptation .
For some reason I almost always watch this when it appears on cable TV . The plot , twisted and complicated as it is , is a bit hard to follow at times although it does make sense if you pay attention . But I think it's the general milieu that is evoked by the location shooting , wardrobe , makeup , and art direction that makes this interesting . Boy , it looks cold ! Everyone seems to dress in multilayered dark clothing and the men wear Pelzkappe , those big furry caps . When characters speak in outdoor scenes , their breath steams , though not always , so you can pretty much distinguish the scenes shot in the studio from those outside . Smith's novel was a bit more explicit about the material culture of Moscow than this movie is . Not only doesn't Chief Investigator Hurt's cheesy looking compact car have a heater but his shoes are made partly of cardboard . Viewers usually don't pay much attention to makeup unless it draws attention to itself but the makeup department should get a medal for this one . First off , everyone is pale , as they should be in the midst of a Russian winter . The usual tendency is to pile on the suntan and make everyone glamorous . If you want to see an example of what I mean , watch " A Time to Love and a Time to Die " , the scene in which John Gaving as a German soldier returns from months at the front during the winter and takes a bath naked so we can all admire his muscles and that tan he sports all over his body , suggesting not November in Kursk but a summer at the beach in Zihuatanejo . Then there is Joanna Pacula's makeup . She's pale too but she's given just enough eyeshadow or kohl or whatever it is , and her brows and lashes are emphasized just enough to make her look even more modelesque than she ordinarily would . If her eyebrows were any darker she'd look like Audrey Hepburn in " Sabrina . " As it is , with her blue eyes framed by those orbital rings and her chestnut curls cascading around her cheeks , she looks slightly predatory , maybe like a sable . In some later movie she played a vampire , I think , and I can see why she was cast . William Hurt , likewise pale , even paler than usual come to think of it , is likewise nicely handled . His thin stringy hair has been blackened for some reason . I don't know why . There are plenty of blond Russians . Look at Alexander Gudonov . Hurt's character is nobody's idea of a superhero . He's just an earnest cop who can be beaten up , as he is several times . After he has killed a traitor who happened to be a man of considerable importance in the Soviet bureaucracy , he next shows up on screen with a small shiner the color of a storm cloud on one of his eyelids and a slight scab on his lower lip . He's been clobbered by the KGB for the killing , you see . But we don't see it on screen , or hear it described . The bruises on his face tell the story . How tempting it must have been to make more of these possibilities . A Makeup Department could have gone ape here - - one cheek stuffed with cotton , bandages on his head , his face a welter of bruises . But this is tastefully done , giving you all the information you need in order to know what happened . Actually , there is one tan face in the crowd - - Lee Marvin's . But it suits him . And he's an American businessman who only visits the USSR from time to time so , between visits , for all we know he may be stretched out on the beach at Bora Bora . He even wears beige and dark browns that match his suntan , and he's the only one in the bunch who actually looks spiffy . William Hurt may be chewed out by his superior for not having shaved closely enough but that would never happen to Marvin , who looks like he just stepped out of five-hundred-dollar a head hair salon . There isn't a line spoken by Marvin that doesn't ring with irony . Every pause , every facial twitch , every curious line reading , tells us that this guy is very clever and he knows it . Pacula's performance is that of a model who's taken acting lessons . William Hurt , a fine actor , does some strange things here . He LOOKS the part of the determined militia detective , relatively quiet , rarely smiling , seldom physical - - but he drapes his speech in British locutions : " yore " for " your " , " bean " for " been , " and so on . We can only guess why . The two Americans ( Dennehy and Marvin ) speak frank American . The actors playing Russians are all from the UK except Pacula , who is Polish and kept help her Slavic accent . So by adopting a Brit accent Hurt places himself among the " Russians . " Dennehy , by the way , is at the top of his form . Marvin is absolutely magnetic , as is Ian Bannon , whose readings have the same ironic pitches and stress as Marvin's . You never believe a word he says . The film ends on a noble note . Pacula gets to go to America which , as everyone knows , is rich , democratically pure , and free of corruption . Hurt stays behind to save her from being followed and killed by KGB . The novel had a different ending . The hero follows the girl to New York City . They sit down to watch television . The program is one they have never seen before . It's title is , " The Price is Right . " ( " Come on DOWN ! " ) The hero says something like , " THIS is what it's all about ? Money ? " And gets up and goes back to Russia leaving the girl flat .
The Hope and Crosby Road pictures were very popular in the 1940s and " The Road to Morocco , " the third in the series , shows them at about their best . Well , maybe " Zanzibar " was at the top , with " Utopia " not far behind . The climax in this one depends a little too much on minor gimmicks like dribbling glasses , exploding cigarettes , and whoopee cushions . A weakness easily overlooked . The plot takes them to a fairy tale Morocco , more Arabian Nights and Hollywood than French colony . The men wear white suits and fez caps or turbans . The women wear diaphanous veils and tiaras . Dorothy Lamour turns up as a princess who , her fortune tellers say , must marry a man she cares nothing about because he is fated to die a violent death within the week , freeing Lamour to marry the powerful sheik Anthony Quinn . That man she cares nothing about and chooses to marry is Bob Hope . Crosby muscles in on Hope , not knowing what the sooth sayers sayeth . It's all nonsensical and none of it is taken seriously by the actors , the writers , or the viewers . Even when Crosby is serenading Lamour with a pretty little ballad , " Moonlight Becomes You , " he tries to pick a rose to bring her and pricks his finger instead . Some of the sight gags are pretty amusing - - Crosby and Hope imitating mechanical men , when a fly lands on Hope's nose . It's not the only joke involving Hope's notorious nose , and there's a reference to the size of Crosby's ears as well . I don't want to reveal too many of the amusing incidents , but I always laugh when a girl tries to wake up Hope . He shrugs her off , rolls over in bed , and mumbles , " Okay , Ma , I'll get a job tomorrow . " And Crosby's line : " Junior , how can you do this to me ? Why we went to school together . We were in the same class for years - - until I got promoted . " The script has no hesitation in breaking the fourth wall or slinging anachronisms , self references , or in-jokes around . When Hope asks how they got out of the tight spot we last saw them in , Crosby looks at the camera suspiciously , then leans over and whispers his reply into Hope's ear in order to keep it a secret from us . Some of the gags may be lost on younger , less sophisticated viewers . " Aunt Lucy " shows up as a ghost , giving advice and scolding the two men from time to time . Crosby makes some comment about Aunt Lucy's being dead but you can't keep her down . " Not Aunt Lucy , " Hope agrees , " She's a Republican . " ( Kids : This movie was made midway through the unprecedented , and now illegal , third term of Franklin Delano Roosevelt , a Democrat . ) I've always enjoyed the relationship between Hope and Crosby in these movies . Both are greedy , libidinous cowards , ready to double cross one another at the first glimpse of a dollar bill or a woman's ankle . ( In this one , Crosby sells Hope into slavery to pay for a restaurant meal . ) But neither is superior to the other in any way , unlike other popular comedy teams such as Abbott and Costello or Martin and Lewis . These guys are both equally stupid and despicable . Lots of fun .
There is humanity and bravery enough to go around in these seven stories . Bravery because people risked invaluable things for the sake of others , and humanity because some of them gave things to others even under conditions so hopeless that there was nothing left to risk . It's impossible not to be moved by narratives involving the Nazi program of genocide , perhaps the most horrifying event of the last century . And it's for this reason that it's important for the subject to be treated with care and delicacy . A tragedy of such monumental proportions can't be cheapened by easy sentiment or falsified by myth . There were , for instance , not six million people murdered in the camps . Nobody will ever know the exact figure but it is closer to fourteen million . In addition to Jews the victims included Gypsies , homosexuals , communists , political undesirables , the mentally retarded and the otherwise " unfit . " Much of the footage is unfamiliar and , with one exception , the seven people described were quite ordinary until they were called upon to be otherwise . The narration ( by Ben Kingsley , who has a great voice ) is perhaps a bit heavy , but perhaps not . Anyone old enough to remember these events don't need the information to be laid on too thick . Still the details of what went on in countries we hear little about - - Hungary , for instance , or Lithuania - - add to the store of what we all should know . In addition , I'm beginning to wonder , judging from some of the things I've heard from younger people , if these events have now become so much history , about as meaningful to them as Guy Fawke's Day . ( I certainly hope not . ) At any rate , the film deserves to be long . The informants , who've seen these things at first hand , will not be with us much longer .
This film consists of interviews with directors and actors , archival footage of public events , and clips of what the MPAA considers questionable taste from mostly recent movies . It's position is clearly a First Amendment one . That's my position too . And the movie is really funny . The MPAA rating board is a secret organization that determines who gets to see a picture , guides the judgment of potential viewers , or whether the film is shown at all . One clergyman who attends the screenings says , " Jack Valenti wanted this to be a totally transparent process but decided it would be bad to broadcast it to the public . " The " investigative team " who start to dig into the process are good-natured , cheerful , iconoclasts , including a couple of lesbians . They try to film the nameless board members who leave for lunch , then follow them into fast-food joints and try to film them on spy cameras and engage them in conversation . Wearing latex gloves , they steal the garbage bags of film raters at night and poke through them trying to get some idea of what goes through their heads . The whole thing is carried out like a CIA operation . And that's what this film is about - - the investigation itself , and the attempt that follows to get a rating for the film about the investigation . I don't know that there's all that much new here . We already know that some people in audiences are liable to imitate certain actions they see on the screen . ( Rape has a higher reenactment quotient than , say , blowing one's self up in a crowded place . ) We know that our ratings are far tougher on sex than on violence , and tougher on gay sex than straight . We know that the emphasis in Europe is pretty much the opposite . We know that people making films usually throw in one or two sops that they know ahead of time will be rejected by the raters , so the raters can feel that they're doing their jobs . ( Orson Welles did the same thing with Citizen Kane . ) We also know , though the film doesn't tell us , that there's a lot more to the relationship between media and behavior than just copycatting . Canadian border cities like Vancouver , BC , get the same programming that American cities like Vancouver , WA , get - - and Canada has more guns per capita too - - and yet the homicide rate in BC is minuscule compared to that of Washington . Some of the funniest material comes from clips that show what has been deliberately sacrificed to the censors . I forget the title of the film it comes from , but one scene has an animated Ken and an equally animated Barbie engaged in sexual acts . The raters allowed a missionary position and a Barbie-on-top but required the deletion of Ken and Barbie going down on one another , anal intercourse , ondinism , and corpraphilia . You haven't seen ANYTHING until you've seen Barbie trying to dump on Ken's eager , smiling face . ( I can't stop laughing . ) John Waters is prominent among the many talking heads , contributing his invaluable and fulgurating insights . On the other side is Jack Valenti , grinning amiably and lying into the camera about the board members ( " just ordinary people " ) , one of whom lives in a multi-million-dollar mansion . Can you imagine the job these people have to do ? They sit there and watch movies all day long , keeping an eye open particularly for sexy parts , actually counting the number of f and m words used ? And to get PAID for it ? And then to pass JUDGMENT on exactly how filthy a film is ? It's enough to make the rotted corpse of Anthony Comestock push its way out of the grave and come crashing through the doors , demanding a seat and a pencil .
With this movie , Dick Powell switched his image from faded musical star to tough guy , and he's pretty good . He's nasal and cynical and sure of himself as he works his way , as Philip Marlowe , through a world of suave villains ( Otto Krueger ) , gigantic and rebarbative clients ( Mike Mazurki ) , blond seductresses ( Clair Trevor ) , and other assorted Chandleresque types . Actually , Raymond Chandler's novel , " Farewell , My Lovely " , is followed about as closely as the agents of social control would allow in 1944 . Edward Dmytryk's direction is efficient and the black-and-white photography , along with the special effects , are well done for their time . Of course , we get Dick Powell's narration of Chandler's prose with its curious tropes . We HAVE to get Chandler's prose because what else is there ? A PLOT ? Five minutes into the film and already Marlowe is working on two separate cases with two separate casts , one having to do with stolen jade , the other with Velma Galento . The threads come together late but it would take the devotion of a Talmudic scholar to figure out all the meanders of this torturous story . No , the key to enjoyment of the film rests with the acting - - from one disjointed incident to the next - - and the recherché charm of the narration . ( " I only took the case because my bank account was trying to crawl under a duck's belly . " ) The movie , like the prose that guides us through it , is inelegant and pretty literal . When somebody hits Marlowe over the head with a sap , the narration tells us that " a big black hole opened up in front of me . I dived in . It had no bottom . " And the screen shows us a big black hole opening up in front of him . He dives in . It has no bottom . It's a good film and enjoyable from beginning to end , once you blind yourself to its limitations . I prefer the 1975 remake with Robert Mitchum . The features that are good in this movie are improved upon in the later version . The photography here is just fine . The photography in 1975 was magnificent . And Powell is a good Marlowe , tough and confident , but Mitchum brings something unique to the role . Mitchum isn't stereotypically hard boiled like Powell . He slouches with exhaustion . ( And that's acting , not Mitchum's natural state , because in Mitchum's remake of " The Big Sleep , " a year or two later , he was speedier and carried the momentum of a bull dozer . ) And Mitchum brings more nuance to the role . Watch the scene in which he's slapped hard by the whorehouse Madam , gapes at her for a second , then lets out a feral yell , leaps to his feet and belts her in the mouth . Powell , satisfying as he is , doesn't have that kind of range . This one has everything that a thoroughly coagulated detective story ought to have . Great scene , when Powell tries to shrug off the effects of the drug he's been given and finds himself surrounded by smoke and spider webs . He tries to threaten the placid doctor who has shot him full of joy juice : " I've got a GUN . When people with a gun tell you to do something , you're supposed to do it ! " He sounds frazzled , confused and a little saddened because the conventions of the detective genre aren't working for him . See it , you big lug , or I turn your face into a dish of moo goo gai pan .
I didn't have much hope for this classic . I knew it was one of those multi-plot movies with MGM stars doing their turns . It was likely to be talky too , and from a stage play co-authored by Edna Ferber - - a woman , yet - - and from some ungodly place like Oklahoma or Wisconsin . I didn't care if she'd been a member of the Algonquin Round Table either . She didn't belong . I could just imagine it . Six sub-plots about couples in which the man is a brute and the woman a silent but supportive sufferer . Everybody sitting at the table , eating and intuiting one another's anger and pathos and love . A Lifetime Movie write large . Actually , it's not that bad . There are about half a dozen sub-plots , some mostly comic , some melodramatic , dealing with various human weaknesses as if the writers had OD'd on St . Thomas Aquinas and the Seven Deadly Sins . But the stories are kind of interesting . And they're sprinkled with witty lines . Some have become classics . Jean Harlow : " I read a book about the future or something , and it said all professions would be replaced by machinery . " Marie Dressler : " Oh , my dear , that's something you never have to worry about . " And there isn't a long scene in which people eat an elaborate meal . The entire movie is about the lead-up to the dinner and , in fact , " The End " appears just as the dining room doors are swinging shut . A covey of characters come and go - - maids , waiters , bellboys , and whatnot - - but it's easy enough to follow the individual stories . The one that makes the greatest impression is John Barrymore's portrayal of a has-been actor . Once " the great profile " , he is now reduced to cadging money from his agent and has taken to drink . ( Cf . , the character of Norman Maine in either of " A Star is Born " films . ) Barrymore , a has-been drunk put out of work by talkies , plays himself . At first his performance is comic . He's so proud of himself he's delusional . And Barrymore is outrageously hammy , whether he intended it that way or not . Even his death scene is amusing in a morbid way . Turning on the gas in this major hotel room from which he is about to be evicted , he seats himself in an armchair , smooths his hair back , and adjusts the shade of the floor lamp to bring out his profile . The director , George Cukor , handles this scene well , as he does all the others . Impending doom , for that matter , hangs over everything here , like a shimmering curtain of dread , of which we're only intermittently made aware . Lionel Barrymore is dying of a heart ailment . Madge Evans and the otherwise comic Marie Dressler have a brief exchange about youth and age . Evans , an attractive young woman , talks about youth . Dressler , a vulgar rich and dumpy older woman , responds with some remarks about death . " It's so - - final , " she says , her raccoon eyes bulging so that we don't miss the point . Wallace Beery is kind of interesting too . He plays the kind of low-brow ex-junk man or something , like Broderick Crawford , who has acquired wealth and ambition . I couldn't help noticing that when he acts , his features toggle between three modes . When he speaks , his lips move and he frowns or smiles while the rest of his face is immobile . At other times , his eyebrows wobble on his forehead while the rest of his face is immobile . At still other time his nose wrinkles but his other features remain placid . He can't get his act entirely together but he's funny as hell to watch . I wound up enjoying it but not understanding why it's considered a cinema classic . It's a successful filmed stage play with mixed comic and tragic elements and a couple of neat witticisms . The collection of diverse characters who chat and argue can be found in almost all disaster movies - - airplanes or upside-down ships . Unpromising material - - lots of talk . But some good lines : " Everyone would drop in - - Winston , Noel , sometimes Wales . And then they might park there for a week .
It's about an embezzler , Peter Ustinov , who infiltrates a British company , Texa-Conn or something like that , posing as a computer whiz and security expert . He secretly learns to hack into the computer , while gathering the admiration of his boss , Karl Malden , the enmity of his office rival , Bob Newhart , and the love of his inept secretary , Maggie Smith . Some of the business details were a little murky to these non-business-oriented eyes but they're believable enough and I got the general idea . Ustinov , the peculating Peter , establishes phony businesses in Paris , Rome , and Stuttgart , and uses Texa-Conn's computer to send all kinds of money to these ersatz establishments . The overseas companies , of course , consist of nothing more than himself , Ustinov , and the addresses are an abandoned artist's loft in Paris , a barber shop in Rome , and a bakery in Germany . He simply visits them to collect the checks he's sent himself . I didn't think I'd like it for the first few minutes because it seemed rather on the slow side . I was expecting something with a faster tempo and more outrage , along the lines of " The Pink Panther " or " The Lavender Hill Gang . " But this film insinuates itself into your good graces as you come to appreciate the understated humor in the plot , the characterizations , and the dialog . Probably it would be a bad idea to give away too many of the relatively subtle gags but here are some examples of the more noticeable . Ustinov to Secretary Smith : " Let me have the assets of these companies . " Smith : " Assets ? What are they ? " Ustinov : " Little female donkeys . " Now , nothing is made of this little exchange . There's a quick cut and no delay for any laughter , which is appropriate because one's reaction is more likely to be a smile than a laugh . Ustinov searches out that crummy loft in Paris . It's covered with cobwebs . Bricks are strewn around and a couple of the former occupant's paintings have been left behind . The landlord doesn't speak English and Ustinov knows no French . Ustinov points to a child-like painting of a nude woman and chuckles , " Ah . A fam fye-tal , eh ? " Landlord chuckles too , replies : " Vous le prenez pour une anee ? " Ustinov : " Oh - - ANNIE , so that's her name ! " Landlord : " Oui ? " Ustinov : " Entente cordiale ! " ( Mes amis , if I got those genders wrong , je m'excuse . ) Bob Newhart as Willard Gnatpole ( ! ) has the hots for Maggie Smith and is supposed to be driving her home but tells her he's taking " the scenic route . " There is an immediate sequence of suggestive traffic signs . " Caution . " " Lay-By . " " Give Way . " " Yield . " Ending with the imperious " STOP / CHILDREN . " There's another montage when Ustinov's scheme is about to be discovered by the board of directors - - blurry rooftops , police cars , a farewell embrace from Maggie , ending with a sign : PRISON , Wormwood Scrubs . Well , maybe one more . I still can't get over Malden as the boss , declaring decisively , " I never agonize over decisions , " then gulping a handful of pills and washing them down with a glass of water . The acting is unarguably fine . It's Bob Newhart's best role , for instance . Not that he had that many , and not that his range wasn't limited , but he's perfect in this part . The musical score by Laurie Johnson obviously had a good deal of effort put into it . She seems to have written a brief concerto for flute . Ustinov's passion is music and his overseas establishments are headed by false names like Claude Debussy and Giacconino Rossini . Stuttgart's phony president is somebody named Schmidt , and he's an anomalous clinker . Maggi Smith is pretty , sexy , bourgeois , and turns out to be not nearly so dumb as she seems . Delightful , in its own quiet way , but don't expect comic fireworks .
It isn't that HBO can sometimes turn out a television movie that's at once inexpensive and admirable . After all , anybody can hit a home run once in a while . It's that HBO has managed to do it so consistently , and by tackling subjects that are by no means guaranteed share-collectors . I mean controversial stuff - - Roy Cohn ? A disputed presidential election ? The means by which a body of an enlisted man is returned from the Middle East ? They aren't easy subjects . This one has Kevin Bacon as Lt . Col . Michael Strobl escorting the body of Pfc . Chance Phelps , KIA , home to Dubois , Wyoming , home to his family . The story of course is moving . How could it not be ? All along , during the flights and drives , Bacon remains with the casket , now wrapped up for its journey in cardboard and bound by those springy steel bands like a particularly long refrigerator . And he and his responsibility are treated with solemn respect every step of the way . Toward the end , high-speed traffic begins to pile up behind the slow-moving hearse . When they realize what they are following , the drivers turn on their headlights and the traffic jam becomes a funeral procession . It's all pretty tastefully done . At no point does anyone sob - - not during the trip and not during the funeral . Not even during the obligatory praise at the funeral service for Chance Phelps , the young man , who was probably not a paragon of Christian virtue but more likely , like most Marines , tough-minded , self-disciplined , and at times a little reckless . Informative , too . I had no idea that the bodies and their personal effects were so precisely buffed up and carefully prepared . I thought ( without really ever thinking about it ) that someone went through the KIA's effects , threw out the pornography , and sent the rest along home . Here , we learn that the dirt and blood are cleaned from everything , from wrist watches to St . Christopher medals , before they're turned over to the escort . And I wouldn't have believed that a Pfc . would have a senior officer to escort him home . There are no politics in the film , and there shouldn't be . Nicely done .
Two indisputable things to be learned from this film : ( 1 ) Ireland does not look like it does in " The Quiet Man " and ( 2 ) Cate Blanchett has got to be one of the finest actresses around . Dublin here resembles any large American city , with wealthy drug lords cashing in at the top , a horde of distributing goons near the bottom , and junkies on the streets , sometimes dead . Cate Blanchett is the real Veronica Guerin , a journalist who probed too far into this subterranean system . She writes a series of articles on drug use and the vermin involved , substituting their eke names for their real ones , so she and her paper can't be sued . A ninety-caliber dealer becomes " The Monk , " for instance . The legal system is so arranged that the police have difficulty dealing with the problem and the government is able to investigate only an individual's assets for tax purposes , not the source of those assets . Thus , you can be a bus boy in a louche restaurant and no one will question it when you file a tax return for a million pounds . Blanchett first encounters the usual deaf-and-dumb routine from her sources , then as she continues to gather data and publish them , warnings , then threats , then she is shot through the thigh , then pistol whipped , and finally shot dead . It's astounding , the way Blanchett handles this character . She laughs off the threats from both her editors and friends and from the people she's exposing . Of course it's easy for an actor to laugh , but Blanchett laughs NERVOUSLY and gives us a glimpse of the terror behind the bravado . Not only that , but she acts SO nonchalantly in the face of danger to herself , her friends , and her family that she's able to suggest something resembling a death wish . The story itself evidently made history in Ireland , and the requisite happy epilogue follows Guerin's murder . A special investigative board is created to prosecute heroin dealers and the law is changed so that assets may now be frozen . Some of the bad guys wind up in the slams , some on the lam . The script has its felicities . Blanchett remarks to her editor that she now has the name of the kingpin and the editor replies , " Yes , but you can't prove it . " Blanchett : " This is as bad as the police force . " Editor : " Worse . We don't have the resources or the power to arrest . " ( Something like that . ) At it's bottom , though , the plot fits rather neatly into what seems to have become a genre unto itself - - brave , resourceful , tough-talking babe pushes her way into an expose of corruption and crime . And neglects her family to carry on with her bliss . I'll just mention " Erin Brokovitch " in passing as another example . There are many others . But I suppose there's only so much you can do with a story like this , based as it is on true events . Guerin's death was a noble tragedy by any measure , yet it prompts certain ontic questions . How much in the way of " good " must be at stake to be worth dying for ? Would any normal person die in order to put away a handful of gangsters and to make drug laws more effective ? I suspect that after the pistol whipping , most of us would have started a new series of newspaper articles about the social significance of different hair styles . But Veronica Guerin was different . Watching this story play out is like watching a Greek tragedy . Ennobling maybe , but pretty depressing too .
I was called away and missed the last half or so of the film , except for the final few minutes , so I can't judge accurately how nearly the film fulfilled the promise of his first 40 minutes . But it was coming along very well indeed . Ron Livingston , who works with a computer in a cubicle , just like everyone else in his office , is dominated by the suavely domineering boss , Gary Cole . Boy , is Livingston sick of his job . He sees a hypnotherapist for some temporary relief . After inducing the trance and telling Livingston he will no longer worry about what happens , and before being able to tweak the post-hypnotic suggestions , the therapist drops dead and leaves Livingston in a permanent go-to-hell mood that even has him smiling benignly at the therapist's fallen body . Two investigators come to downsize the company and Livingston is in the land of Cockaigne . He is the only worker to tell them the flat-out truth . He doesn't give a damn about his work because the job is stupid and he's not motivated . The visiting execs take him for a brutally frank and perceptive subordinate . He's promoted . Livingston has the talent and , equally important , the right comic face for the role . He's a presentable-enough young man but his jaw is slightly large for the rest of his features and it lends him a dumb appearance . So far , so familiar . The guy who is somehow altered by circumstances so that he refuses to conform , is taken as a non-paradigmatic genius by others , and is subject to many comic situations . Just offhand , I'm thinking of a " Twilight Zone " episode with Jack Carson , Peter Sellers in " Being There " , a desperate Jim Carrey comedy . And , boy , there is hardly any more unpromising material to make a funny movie out of than a sterile office . " Bartleby " was able to do it . " Office Space " might have fallen flat on its face once it got past the first couple of funny scenes because , after all , unless there is talented writing behind the plot , a sense of progression , what you're left with is a single joke . I'd like to think this one did better than that , that it hit its mark . The morning after his transformation , a Saturday that Livingston has been ordered to spend at work , he shuts off the alarm , ignores his boss's phone calls , and sleeps until the afternoon while some vibes on the score give us a gentle and beautifully syncopated rendering of " Beautiful Dreamer . " The writers did more than just rob Livingston of his ability to pretend he cared . Jennifer Aniston has some comic moments with her boss too , and her uniform . She's a waitress in one of those " cute " chain restaurants like Chili's and she's required to wear a minimum of 35 buttons ( " flair " ) on her uniform . The buttons are incredibly vulgar - - pictures of Garfield and whatnot . Her boss earnestly talks to her about her flair . She protests that she's wearing the required number of buttons . Yes , but 35 is the MINIMUM number of flairs . Chester over there is wearing FIFTY-TWO flairs . So she'd better shape up . And Steven Root is sublime as Livingston's co-worker whose desk is always being moved ( four times in one day ) and whose Swingline stapler is always being snatched away by Gary Cole , leaving Root only a Boston stapler . I hope the film as a whole measured up to the part of it that I was able to catch . I'm looking forward to seeing Act II when I can .
I take the title to be the kind of pun that Richard Matthieson was fond of using . In one sense , the enemy is of course the submarine commanded by the clever Curt Jurgens . In another sense , the enemy is more obliquely identified in a " philosophical " conversation that Robert Mitchum , commander of a Buckley-class destroyer escort , has with the ship's doctor . Mitchum goes on for several minutes about how men seem to have an unconquerable evil part of them , so that " if you cut off the head of a snake it just grows another one . " Let's say that Enemy Number One is the submarine that lies beneath the surface of the sea . Enemy Number Two is the reptilian brain that lies beneath the cerebral cortex . Mitchum plays his role straight : competent and all business . Jurgens on the other hand has been exhausted by the war and disillusioned by the political ideology he and his crew are risking their lives for . He drinks too much brandy at one point and maunders on about how , during the first war , it was all a kind of game in which the KaEl would say , " Torpedos - - loss , " and sometimes they'd go and sometimes not . The American crew are all clean cut and good humored . The Germans are sloppily dressed and sweaty . Jurgens is clever enough to elude the DE but betrays himself by continually coming back to the same course , the one which leads straight to home , and Mitchum outwits him . Good points ? I can't offhand think of a film about the US Navy that has such realistic seagoing atmosphere . The color photography is superb . The wind blows on weather decks and makes everyone's hair and clothing flap , as it does on a ship at high speed . The twists and turns of the game being played by the two skippers generates a good deal of suspense . Weaknesses . All the German sailors are ordinary human beings except the one Nazi aboard , whom Jurgens finds disgusting . And because of his background as a folk singer it's difficult to forget the ethnicity that Theodore Bikel brings to his role as executive officer . And we see a lot of depth charge attacks from the submariners ' point of view , with bolts springing loose , a panicky crewman , chronometer crystals cracking , water squirting forth , all of which are already familiar from earlier movies , including " Destination Tokyo . " Then a scene that I've never figured out . Mitchum has been charging in to drop a few depth charges on a regular basis , then turning away after the attack . After one such incident , Jurgens says to Bikel , " Now I'll tell you something . Each time he comes in to attack he turns away . He doesn't always turn the same way , but twice he did . " This allows the sub to prepare to launch torpedoes if the DE turns the same way again . What does that all mean ? If you only have two ways to turn after an attack , right or left , how can you not turn the same way once in a while ? If you turn the other way every time you finish an attack , you make yourself predictable and therefore vulnerable . The explanation makes no sense , but I suppose is offered just as an excuse for permitting the fish , or " eels " as the Germans called them , to be launched . After the torpedoes wound the DE mortally , Jurgens surfaces to finish the ship off with his guns . Mitchum , who has planned for this , says , " He's coming up . That's the first foolish thing he's done . It makes us even . " I don't get that either . It was routine for U-boats to sink defenseless ships with deck guns in order to conserve their torpedoes . It happened every day ( and night ) . The last thing I consider a weakness is the final scene . True , both the DE and the U-boat are destroyed , but the outcome is hardly a tie . The image of the American ship perched atop the smashed submarine is unforgettable and too powerful to represent an even loss . And on top of that , so to speak , the movie ends with the two skippers face to face aboard the American destroyer that has rescued them . It's a cliché of antiwar movies that have humanized the enemy , as this one has done . We respect one another and we're all alike under the skin and in war there are no winners - - except that we win . The Americans will be free to go on fighting ; the Germans are all prisoners of war , those that have survived . " Torpedo Bay " has an Italian submarine and a British destroyer pitted against one another . The crews meet on shore and develop a mutual respect . In the end , it is only with the greatest reluctance that the submarine blows up the destroyer , saluting the ship as it sinks . It's an Italian movie . In " Zulu , " the bravery and stamina and self sacrifice of the African warriors leave the British soldiers in awe , and it is only out of desperation that the Tommies mow them down like wheat . It's a British movie . In " Die Brucke , " a handful of German schoolkids are put into uniform and told mistakenly to hold a bridge against an attack by an enormous force of well-armed Americans who are by no means brutal savages . The kids suffer terrible losses and in the end the bridge ironically is blown by German troops , although the Americans have been driven off and the bridge held . It's a German movie . " The Bridge on the River Kwai " has Japanese troops that are as human and sympathetic as the British prisoners . But the bridge is destroyed . It's a British movie . I don't need to go on about this . " The Enemy Below , " like the others , has a latent feel-good quality for an American audience . How would they have felt if the two opposing crews had been sailing away on another German sub ?
This is the one with Robert Culp as the aggressive self-starting manager of a football team who murders its madcap owner , Dean Stockwell , in the swimming pool of his playboy mansion . Culp has established an alibi for himself by manipulating a taped recording , phone , wiretaps , and other such stuff , some of which lost me along the way . Culp's legerdemain places him in his office high atop the Los Angeles Coliseum at the time the murder took place , whereas he was , in fact , impersonating a Ding-Aling Ice Cream man while driving to and from the scene of the crime . Valerie Harper shows up in an amusing scene as a hooker who mistakes the visiting Columbo for a client . Dean Jagger has a small part , and James Gregory has an even smaller part . All of the performances are up to par and the direction is competent . But - - and this must be said - - but Columbo always shows an extraordinary amount of intuition and has an abundance of good fortune in all his cases . In this case the intuition and the luck smother the plot . Columbo , try as he might , simply cannot pin the deed on Robert Culp . There is a " loose end " , so to speak . But Columbo has an epiphany in a travel bureau when a cuckoo clock announces the time . My legal responsibilities forbid me to divulge more of the plot or its solution . Oh , well , I guess I can say that Culp's motive for murdering Stockwell is not only weak but absent . Early on , Columbo mentions in passing , " The motive . That's what I don't get , the motive . " It doesn't seem to occur to him that there IS no motive . If Culp stands to profit from Stockwell's death , it's never made clear why . He's not going to inherit money . He's not going to take over the ownership of the football team . He has nothing going with Stockwell's wife . So , cui bono ? The rules of logic decree that Culp is unculpable . That's neither here nor there in an episode of Columbo , of course . The emphasis is not on logic but character and the interaction of characters . And this is the episode in which Columbo puts one foot accidentally into a swimming pool , ruins his shoe , and goes about asking people out of the blue , " Where did you get those shoes ? " And , " Sixty-five dollars ? Is there any place you think I could get a pair of shoes that look just like them for sixteen or seventeen dollars ? "
SPOILERS . There's no doubt about Quentin Tarentino's inventiveness . This was a real shocker when I first saw it several years ago . There had been violence before , but never so inexplicable . And gore before , but never gore quite so galore before . And that odd , quirky dialog - - alternately clumsy and adroit . It was obviously done on a small budget but did everything it was supposed to do and more . A second viewing , along with some knowledge of Tarrentino's later work , deprives us of the shock but gives us a better perspective on the movie . A couple of things stand out . One is that Tarrentino is like Howard Hawks in depriving his characters of any background . ( That's about all he and Hawks have in common . ) There have rarely been such rootless people wandering around on the screen . In this instance , there is a father / son pair , but nobody else has any family , few real friendships except those developed in the course of the narrative . There is no ethnic solidarity . Nobody has a home or a dog . Nobody has a job . Nobody has a girlfriend . These characters are like the ones Shakespeare warned us about , coming out of " air , thin air . " Another thing is the catholic derivativeness of the story and the scenes . Tarrentino may have made an art movie here but he's gobbled up bits and pieces of every kind of film imaginable , from superior stuff to schlock . The claustrophobic feeling of being cooped up in a warehouse with people you don't know and can't trust , he claims , was borrowed from Carpenter's junk version of " The Thing . " The moment when everyone is pointing guns at everyone else , waiting for someone to fire first , seems to be from the climactic scene of " The Wild Bunch . " The exclusive use of pop rock in the score has been done by Scorcese and others . But it's hard to be sure that these are borrowings because , to the extent they are , such borrowings have never seen in such multitudes and so nicely fitted together . The big shootout , of the sort we saw in such detail in " Heat , " is mostly off screen here , which saves money and doesn't cost the narrative much since it deals mainly with character and motivation and blood . The violence and the blood that follows can be a problem . The focus isn't on suffering , just pain and fear . People bleed enough to fill a bath tub . And that scene in which the bound cop is mutilated by Michael Madsen is a bit too-well set up and executed - - for me , anyway . And this is despite the fact that we don't know the cop , or any of the other characters really . These scenes are just shivers looking for spines to run up . Grown sadists and kids who don't know anxiety may enjoy it more . Interesting anecdote . In an interview , Tarrentino describes how poor Lawrence Tierney was giving his big speech assigning the names of colors to the robbers - - " Mr . Orange , Mr . Pink " , and so on . ( Borrowed from " The Taking of Pelham One Two Three . " ) Tierney kept forgetting his lines or blowing them and asking to start again from the top . The other actors were required to sit off screen without moving or changing expression . It took two hours for a satisfactory take . All of the other performers who had been sitting like stone idols all that time went suddenly into spasms of twitching , yawning , scratching , and moaning with relief .
This is a difficult movie to describe so you have to bear with me . John Cusack plays an unsuccessful puppeteer in New York , married to a thoroughly deglamorized Cameron Diaz . He has the hots for his sole employee , his tough and savvy office-mate , Catherine Keener . Then he discovers a kind of crawlspace in his office , at the end of which is the sensorium of the actor John Malkovich . That is , Cusack can be in the mind of the real John Malkovich , but only for 15 minutes at a time , after which he is spit out and flops on the ground next to the New Jersey Turnpike . Cusack decides that if he can't get anyone to pay to see his puppets he can at least charge the public $200 apiece for their 15 minutes in Malkovich's mind . ( This doesn't bother Malkovich because he seems completely unaware of anyone else's being inside him . ) But Cusack's secretary , Keener , has the hots for Malkovich and through this " portal " is able to get his private phone number and agree to meet her at a restaurant . They meet , as arranged . However , when they sit across the table from one another and Keener gazes at Malkovich , glowing with admiration and a filthier kind of lust , Malkovich's mind happens to be occupied by Cameron Diaz at that moment . Diaz has previously spent time taking a shower with Malkovich and has found the idea of having a male's plumbing appealing . Now , she melts under the adoring gaze of Keener in the restaurant . Diaz returns from Malkovich and tells her husband , John Cusack the failed puppeteer , that she must be a trans-sexual because she has never had a woman stare at her with such love as Keener showed towards Malkovich in the restaurant . Now she wants an operation and she's going to talk to Dr . Lester . The astounded Cusack shouts , " But Dr . Lester is an ALLERGIST ! " The next evening , Cusack and his wife are having dinner at home with Keener . They explain the situation to her , then they both throw themselves on Keener at the same time . Keener slaps Cusack away and tells Diaz that , yes , she finds Diaz attractive - - but only when Diaz is in Malkovich . Then it gets REALLY complicated . There is a pursuit at one point through the repressed memories of Malkovich's subconscious , with Malkovich seen peeing his pants on the school bus and sniffing panties . ( Malkovich - - the real Malkovich - - must have a heck of a sense of humor . His character admits to being stoned , and we see him exercising his libido , being snooty towards cab drivers , and so forth . ) The story ends up with Diaz fathering her own child by Keener while occupying Malkovich . If this were a novel , it would be something like Kafka's " Metamorphosis " or Nicholson Baker's " The Fermata , " both attempt to follow the logic of an absurd premise . Example of what I mean : When John Cusack returns from his first trip into Malkovich's brain , he no longer has the piece of wood he took with him . In the face of Keener's skepticism , Cusack demands to know where that piece of wood IS . Did it disappear in the ether ? Is it still somehow back there in Malkovich's brain ? Good question . As a film it most closely resembles something that Woody Allen might have come up with if Allen had been in the habit of ingesting psychedelic substances , or something Monty Python might have dreamed up without any chemical help . ( I must say I didn't get much out of " Brazil . " ) If you want a sense of the lengths to which this film is willing to go , imagine a scene from " Swan Lake " being performed in front of a full audience , involving the entire corps de ballet , with a human-sized wooden puppet in the middle of a circle of ballerinas , and the puppet is unclothed , made of raw wood , with all his hinges and joints showing , and the audience stands up and applauds . In an era when American movies seem to have been formed by cookie cutters , this kind of innovation is startling . Should you watch this ? Well , I'll tell you how you can find out . You go to a clinical psychologist , see , and you sit down and take the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory ( MMPI ) , and then you ask the shrink what your profile looks like . If he says ANYTHING like , " You peaked on Scale Eight , " you should definitely see this film because you'll appreciate and enjoy it more than most . Otherwise - - well , it's your mind .
Three issues dealt with in this movie . ( 1 ) Who murdered Mona , the transsexual ? ( 2 ) Will the sheriff , Billy Bob Thornton , overcome his revulsion for queers , men who dry flowers , women who like to wear spike collars , people of either sex who lust after cold sauerkraut , and other assorted wimps and pre-verts sufficiently to come to be truly in love with Mona's wife , Scarlett ( Arquette ) ? And ( 3 ) whatever is going to become of all these corrupt politicians ? The movie is nicely shot on location in Louisiana . The direction is competent , with only a few quick shots to dizzy the viewer . And the plot has a lot of texture to it . We honestly get the feeling that everyone in the parish knows everyone else . When a truck overturns and spills its load of shoes along the side of the road , Thornton makes several phone calls to the folks to come out and get some free shoes ! Thornton's performance is really quite good . His morals are no better than they should be , perhaps . He shags his deputy's wife in the back seat of her own car . He hands out spilled shoes recklessly . He cheated on the wife who now despises him and has virtually no contact with his daughter , to whom he is irrelevant . Yet he comes across as a laid back sort of Southerner , easy going but a man who will stand firm when he feels he's being given the business . Not that he's one of those super action heroes . Thornton himself is no muscle man , and a black guy in a New Orleans strip club easily subdues him . Patricia Arquette is such a cool blonde she seems positively Icelandic . And what eyes ! It's impossible to put the color of her irises into words . Sela Ward is beautiful , classy , and voluptuous , and Thornton is a cretin for having cheated on her . I enjoyed William DeVane as the Southern judge too . DeVane is always reliable , and it's fun to see him as a genial and corrupt old pol , hobbling around on his walking stick . But it's Thornton who makes the movie , and he's very good . Who killed Mona ? ( SPOILERS ) Mona was shot by a factory reject with an IQ in the negative numbers and a moral code to match . The killing was simplicity itself . Almost everything else layered on in between tells us more about the community and its politics than about the murderer . Simply put , in the beginning , Thornton finds Mona's dead body . At the end he discovers that the overweight garage owner has a hole drilled through the wall of the lady's room so he can watch what goes on . When he discovers that Mona is anatomically male he goes berserk and Thornton gets him . The end . But it brings us to issue numbers two and three . The movie draws a clear line between the " righteous " members of the community and the " oddballs " who live in New Orleans . Thornton at first is between the two but is repelled by hookers , no matter how sympathetic , amused when he finds that the victim's body has a penis . He has kicked his gay brother out of the Parish in order to be elected sheriff . By the end , it turns out that unfettered righteousness is more dangerous than open paraphilia . The reason Mona was in the Parish in the first place is that she had been brought from New Orleans to attend a stag party given by the politicians . And she was killed by a man who believes her murder was justified because " she shoulda never used the lady's room . " Thornton rethinks his morality and comes to accept the oddballs for the human beings that they are . I don't mean the movie is that preachy . Nobody makes speeches about it . It simply shows us Thornton's greater tolerance , which makes it possible for him to rebond with his family and with Arquette . It's a decent flick , although people who think homosexual are sick , pre-verted , and deserving of death are unlikely to find it enjoyable in any way .
A . L . Kroeber was a fascinating and brilliant man , completely devoted to his field . During the earthquake of April , 1906 , he pulled himself out of the rubble in his downtown home , shook off the dust , and walked many miles up hill to check on his Museum , which was located where the U . C . Medical Center now stands , at the top of Parnassus . He was into everything . He was the first person to bring anthropology to the West Coast and almost everyone who met him considered themselves friends of his . He also wrote what was probably the most lucid and all-encompassing general text of anthropology , a huge 1948 tome , which is now considered out of date because of its content ( we now know a lot more ) and its approach ( culture as determined by history and styles rather than materialism ) . The progressives dislike him for this and for the fact that his benefactress was Phoebe Hearst . And yet , he was devilishly smart , able to outline some social problems that we are only now trying to cope with , like globalization , which he called " the universal pattern . " What happens when the whole world depends on an oil-based industry - - and then we run out of oil ? I won't go on about him except to say that he loved his first wife - - Ann Archer in this movie - - that his second wife , Theodora , wrote a graceful biography of Kroeber , subtitled , I think , " A Personal Configuration . " Also , the " K . " in Ursula K . LeGuinn stands for " Kroeber , " since she was his daughter . The movie itself sometimes lapses into clichés but there are blessedly few of them . It's been years since I read " Ishi : The Last Yahi , " but as I remember it he was consistently polite and cooperative . The movie yields to the temptation to make him a bit of a mystic , listening to the song of the earth ( which Kroeber is unable to hear ) . But I don't know if such beliefs are so alien to the spirit of the Indians of California . There are other conjectural episodes added to spice up what the writers might otherwise have thought a too-pedestrian story . Ishi gets deflowered . The next morning we see him humming happily to himself , hard at work polishing the glass cases in the museum . The movie also turns Kroeber into a kind of stereotypical scientist . " You have Ishi here ? " Ishi asks Kroeber , tapping Kroeber's notebook . " In the book ? Yes . " " But not here , " says Ishi , tapping Kroeber's chest . But , well , okay , so it's poetic license . ( I think actual documentaries of Ishi's life with the white folks are available . ) The performances are outstanding . If the film creaks at the joints while straining to make the characters look human , the performers take it over the finish line . God , John Voight can be a good actor when he gets his teeth into a role . Here he does a splendid job as a man who puts as much distance as he can between himself and human emotions . Voight expertly conveys the discomfort and helplessness Kroeber feels when faced with unpleasantness . It makes his final breakdown , when he sings abjectly over Ishi's death mask , almost unbearably moving . Without the delicate touches provided by the actors , what we would otherwise have is the story of a man " getting in touch with his feelings , " whatever that means . Being an Indian in California wasn't all bad , at least until the white folks came along . ( Stereotypical incidents - - two of them - - of hairy white men shooting down helpless Yahi . Not to say that it didn't happen in early California , because it did . ) The Chumash lived in what is now Santa Barbara , for instance . They left huge piles of garbage behind . If you were to dig in one of OUR old garbage dumps , you'd find that the deeper you dig , the more " primitive " the tools become . There may be disposable ballpoint pens at the top , but under that would be a layer of ballpoints made to last , and under that a layer of fountain pens , and under that ink pens with long wooden handles , then quill pens , and so on . But if you dig into a Chumash garbage dump , you can dig down through three thousand years of their history and find virtually no change in their artifacts . Why should they invent new stuff ? They didn't need it . They had it made . Of course , tragically , the Chumash have now gone the way of the Yahi and the various tribes that were incorporated into the 21 California missions , most of whom died of disease . Next time you visit Mission San Juan Bautista , consider the fact that just over the low stone wall there are roughly 3 , 000 unmarked Indian graves . Ishi has a lot of company .
SPOILERS Fritz Lang had a reputation for stalking around the set barking orders through a megaphone , wearing breeches and riding boots and a monacle , the last of the great cartoons . At least he got the job done . " Woman in the Window " is pretty good noirish stuff . I say " noir-ish " because it's missing one of the principal icons of the genre - - the black snub-nosed . 38 revolver . In it's conventional place we have some of Fritz Lang's ideosyncratic icons - - straw hats , mirrors , and scissors . Robinson leads a rather stodgy life as an assistant professor at Gotham College . ( Who is promoted to department head during the film . How do you do that ? ) He periodically gets together with two friends for dinner at his club , a doctor and the district attorney , Raymond Massey . One night after leaving the club he runs into Joan Bennett and accepts an invitation to her apartment . An enraged man rushes in and begins strangling Robinson who must stab him repeatedly with a pair of scissors in order to save his own life . Robinson and Bennett then weave the proverbial tangled web . Robinson disposes of the body in some woods north of New York . I should say " a densely wooded area " because that's where all dead bodies are found , including this one , by a Boy Scout who promises that if he gets the reward he will use the money to send his kid brother to Harvard and he himself will go to a GOOD college . ( The script by Nunnally Johnson is intelligent and witty , one of the movie's better features . ) The story is a big improvement over that of its companion piece , " Scarlet Street , " if only because in the latter Robinson had to be an undiscovered genius in painting still lifes . And the paintings we see are sidesplittingly absurd . The acting and the ending in " Woman in the Window " also deserve a comment . Robinson had more range than he's usually given credit for . One watches him in " Little Caesar , " chewing the scenery , snarling , strutting , grinning idiotically , and the image is stamped on one's brain . But he could do other things as well , and sometimes quite nicely too . His last performance , in " Soylent Green , " was one of his best . Joan Bennett was a competent actress , no more than that . She's not much of a femme fatale here , just ordinarily pretty . She lacks the kind of glandular ooze that someone like Gloria Grahame might have brought to the part . Raymond Massey is likewise professional . It's interesting to watch his expression change from scene to scene as he grows more suspicious of Robinson . Each time Robinson takes a step or opens his mouth he seems to drip more clues , and Massey picks up on each one , so that if his friendship with Robinson begins with a smile , it ends with a thoughtful frown . Dan Duryea is a slimier , venomous version of Bob Fosse in both appearance and movement , reed slender and sinister all the way . The ending . It seems contrived and tacked on . It's as if someone had tapped the producers on the shoulder half-way through shooting and said you've only got ten minutes left to finish the film . So a minute after leaving Bennett's apartment , with his financial future fixed up and no charges against him , Duryea the blackmailer is told to stop by a policeman , pulls out a gun and starts shooting . The clock must have been ticking because this is completely unmotivated . It does serve the broader purpose of the story however in introducing irony . Duryea seems to have brought ruin to Robinson's life . And by the time of the shootout Robinson has already taken an overdose of something or other and is dozing off into the big sleep without knowing that his suicide is now unnecessary . ( It's kind of complicated , I know , but I don't want to take up too much space except to explain that the murder committed by Robinson has now been pinned on the dead Duryea . ) But - - wait ! There is a high-key closeup of Robinson's face going slack and slumping to the side . Is he dead ? No - - he's asleep ! A hand enters the frame and touches him on the shoulder , and someone says , " Professor , it's ten thirty . " He'd fallen asleep in his chair at the club ! Perhaps borrowing from " The Wizard of Oz , " a shaken Robinson retrieves his coat from the man he murdered and says good-night to Duryea , the hotel doorman , before walking down the late-night street . He peers at the portrait in the window that started the whole business and a tarty woman's face appears in the reflection . She asks him for a light and he runs off , protesting , " Not on your life . Not for a million dollars ! " It's easy to make fun of a movie like this but it's actually kind of neat . Robinson is no crafty villain , and Joan Bennett appears to be an honest whore , less innocent than he but not at all evil . Everything they do is out of desperation . One feels sorry for both of them , especially Robinson who seems never to have had an impure thought . I didn't even mind the it-was-only-a-dream ending . Sure it's been done before , but it permits the film to end on a comic note , which comes as a relief after all the drama and suspense that has preceded it . Well worth watching .
We probably have Ken Burns to thank for this miniseries on the American Revolutionary War . Five years previously , Burns had produced " The American Civil War , " which was wildly popular - - for a PBS miniseries anyway . " The Revolutionary War " follows much the same format - - Charles Kuralt narrates , rather than John McCullough ; letters from the period are read aloud with the author's name being appended . " The Revolutionary War " has reenactments instead of still photographs , for obvious reasons , and for whatever reason pays more attention to the actual battles and less to the quotidian details of life . We don't get much in the way of what the troops ate , or what the mood was back on the home front . And there are fewer of the heartbreaking dramatic expositions of the earlier film - - nothing about slavery or the irony of two old and loving friends trying to kill each other at Gettysburgh , like Hancock and Armistead . The overall tone is slightly drier . But it's a good series , almost a necessary series , just as much as " The American Civil War . " The reason I make this argument is that in neither the Revolutionary War nor the Civil War are we able to demonize the enemy . We're always able to spin World Wars I and II . After all , Germany was responsible for a genocidal program , and who knows anything about the Japanese ? That was barbarism at its worst . But who can demonize the " enemies " we fought in the Revolutionary and Civil Wars ? In the first , American patriots were fighting the British ( and , surprisingly often , other Americans who , for one reason or another , they were feuding with ) . How can we demonize the British ? We've been on the same side as the British through two very bloody wars in the past century . If the British are not our allies , then we have no allies . And we can't very well demonize either side in the Civil War . Both sides were Americans who believed God was on their side . And the sides themselves were all mixed up . Many of the Founding Fathers owned slaves . Lincoln had married a woman from a slave state . All of this throws the emphasis upon the agony of war itself , not upon the rude habits of the enemy . The approach taken to the conflicts must perforce be balanced , and it's about time . I won't go into any details of the unfolding history because it's generally well known . ( Kids : PS . , the Americans won independence from the British . ) As I say , this isn't nearly as dramatic as Ken Burns ' series . Burns was an innovative genius at making documentaries and at promoting himself . The producers of this mini-series are less daring but , in a limited way , equally informative . Still , it needs to be taken one episode at a time because in the near-absence of drama and breathing spells you're liable to OD . With whatever weaknesses this miniseries has , it ought to be seen by everyone in the US , especially by youngsters . It doesn't have the WHIZ and ZAP of a music video on MTV but sometimes education demands sacrifice and we sometimes need education in order to be smart rather than dumb . I was teaching a class in communications at a state university when Ken Burns ' documentary was being shown . I asked the several dozen students how many were watching it . Answer : None . Oh , how we NEED more balanced documentaries about past wars . Maybe , as a result of watching them , we won't stumble into so many wars in the future .
Nicholas Roeg has this thing for sex and hidden menace . He even turns the fork of a tree into an obscene photograph . And the teen aged Jenny Agutter is no help either , running around in this skimpy skirt or in her underwear or sometimes nothing at all , which is nice . Meanwhile anything can happen . There's death around every corner . It's a simple story on the face of it . A father - - one of those Richard Cory types - - takes his kids ( Agutter and Luc Roeg ) for a drive into the desert . He parks the car for a picnic in the middle of nowhere and tries to shoot them - - rather a shocking moment since the film hasn't set it up . Failing that , he sets fire to the car and blows out his brains . The two kids must get home but they go about it in the dumbest way imaginable . Instead of following the car's tire tracks back to a road they take off in a random direction . And , really , since they were driven inland from Sidney ( Adelaide in the novel ) , they ought to head east towards the sea , meaning they should walk towards the rising sun . But , man , these kids are out of their element . If it weren't for their accidentally running into aboriginal David Gumpilil , they wouldn't get very far . Fortunately he knows how to extract a living from what seems to be a most unpromising environment . He hunts and he gathers , as hunters and gatherers do , and there are some unpleasant scenes of real animals being speared to death . It's like watching a movie in Anthropology 101 . Still , Gumpilil kills only to eat , and otherwise lives in harmony with nature . Roeg's film alas contrasts Gumpilil's cheerful optimism and , finally , his mortal love for Agutter , with the ways of the white folks . They seem uniformly nuts , wasteful , and unfriendly . They shoot and kill buffalo for no evident reason and leave the carcass to actively rot - - and I mean " actively . " A nice close up shot of a decomposing buffalo's mouth crawling with maggots . Gag me with a spoon ! The ways of the white folks are represented mainly by abandoned farmhouses and an abandoned mine , filled with rusting junk . It's an odd story . For all the troubles they've been through , neither Agutter nor her brother seems particularly disturbed . After their father eats his gun , there's no reaction to it , and there is only the briefest reference to it late in the story . Luc Roeg asks Agutter why his father killed himself and she brushes it off with , " I don't know . " I don't know why he's dead either . I don't know why Gumpilil props himself up in a tree and dies after courting Agutter in this spooky manner . Maybe it was something he ate . If Roeg's view of Western civilization is justified , somebody should have explained to Gumpilil that it's best for him to have nothing to do with any of them , Agutter's definitive nubility notwithstanding . But these two deaths , like many other things in the film , go unexplained , as they might in real life . There's a tacked-on epilogue with Agutter married but still dreaming of her walkabout . A . E . Houseman's poem makes it all seem wistful and full of contentment , although that's not exactly what the film has shown us . What we've witnessed is a tragedy in slow motion . In any case , you are guaranteed to have a hard time shaking this one out of your memory .
Clint Eastwood is a remarkable guy . As he eases into and through his 70s , he's taken more chances than ever , unlike Howard Hawks and so many other artists , who repeat themselves as they age . He's explored new milieus in each of his later movies - - a Western with no heroes , women's boxing , a disappearing ethnic neighborhood , the tragedy of heroism , the social elite of an alien Southern city , an even more alien world of doomed Japanese warriors . And he's done it all with a relaxed grace on happy sets . Not all are successful but each embodies an ambiguity that's stunning . They're adult movies , made by an adult for adults . Kids aren't going to be cheering the good guys because there are no good guys . This is the one about the kind of ethnic neighborhood in which everyone seems to know everyone else . The kind that's rapidly disappearing , in this case Boston Irish . ( The New England accents are just marked enough to fall short of parodies . ) Three men have grown up together , their lives interwoven in various , rather complex ways - - Kevin Bacon , Sean Penn , and Tim Robbins . Bacon has grown into a police officer . Penn is a thug who's spent time in the slams . Robbins is a tormented wretch . The story is hung on the peg of a murder . Penn's young daughter is beaten and shot to death . Bacon probes the case . Robbins , by coincidence , has been involved in a murder that has nothing to do with the death of Penn's daughter but which makes him look guilty nonetheless . Penn , a man of violence , becomes convinced of Robbin's culpability and murders him . When the true perps are revealed , Bacon realizes that Penn will never admit to the mistaken killing of their mutual friend Robbins , but Bacon will need to try pinning him for it , so the two men are now at odds with one another . That's the plot . The real story deals with the exploration of character and of how we are shaped by events that happened long ago , events that we may not even remember with any clarity . The pacing is deliberate , the dialog naturalistic , the mistakes human in their nature , and the location shooting is realistic . ( No tours of Harvard Yard or the Old North Church - - just working-class neighborhoods . ) In addition to the three principals , Eastwood has assembled a fine cast that includes Marcia Gay Hardin , Eli Wallach , and Laura Linney , among others . None of them are glamorized in any way . Closeups reveal Robbin's stubble , Linney's papules , Penn's nevis , and Bacon's blemishes . But none of it comes across as cruel , any more than our looking in the mirror every morning is an act of cruelty . I guess one of the things that's most impressive about Eastwood's articulation of these settings is that none of them was ever his own . As a child of the depression he followed his father around California , mostly working at gas stations . He's reserved and not especially articulate in interviews . His signature ( which I saw on the menu of a Chinese restaurant in Monterey ) is the drawling set of loops of a high school student more interested in athletics than aesthetics . A very rich man , he voted for H . Ross Perot . He was never a cowboy , never an effete homosexual snob , never a Boston Irish kid , but he manages to make these characters come alive for us . Who would have dreamed that there was an embryonic artist maturing under that shabby poncho ?
Warren Beatty is a high-end hairdresser who is trying to borrow money from Beverley Hills executive / businessman Jack Warden so he can open his own shop . Meanwhile , he's getting it on behind Warden's back with Warden's wife ( Lee Grant ) , Warden's girl friend ( Julie Christie ) , and Warden's daughter ( Carrie Fisher ) , while at the same time he's dealing with his own girl , Goldie Hawn . Warden makes Beatty's tasks a little easier by believing he's gay . In the course of the 1968 election ( Nixon wins over Humphrey ) , everything falls apart . Beatty finally decides he wants to spend his life with Christie but it's too late . Christie runs off to be married to Warden's wealthy businessman in Acapulco . Last shot : Beatty standing alone on a hill top looking forlornly after Christie's retreating car . I don't remember my response when I first saw this in a San Rafael theater but I doubt that it would be the same that I had tonight , after seeing it again for the first time in thirty-some years . For one thing , the protagonist , Beatty , is clearly the person we masculine types are meant to identify with . He only went to beauty school in the first place so that he could meet women , and except for a few nagging doubts , he's in heaven because , man , has he met a lot of rich and beautiful clients . We also must admire his skill . ( I guess . I speak from a position of total ignorance . ) All his clients seem to have identical hair styles . And , as he explains to Warden , he wants some capital to open his own business because " I'm better than the guy I'm working for . " And , as his own boss , we presume new sensual vistas open before him . Beatty is basically a Jungian sensation type , hungry for new stimuli , careless , reckless even , about his means of getting them . His obvious opposite is Jack Warden's character , this being one of Warden's best and most complex roles . Warden's only skill is making money . He listens only to stock market reports and the only television he watches is during Nixon's election . He's blind to everything else going on around him , the intrigues , the interactional dynamics , although he evidently feels good about his family life , loves his daughter . In the end he's brought down by his own complacency , his own feeling of invulnerability . And yet , in many respects , he's a more honorable man than Warren Beatty . He really DOES love someone beside himself . And when he realizes that Beatty has been servicing his wife , his girl friend , and his daughter , he doesn't strike out in anger . He huffs and stalks away , then later returns for a rational conversation about solving some of the newly uncovered issues . He's not mean spirited in any way . He's open minded . Finding himself at a hippie psychedelic party , he is puzzled by the naked goings on , but curious too , and a little pleased . He doesn't turn down the joint that's offered him and he's perfectly willing to join a nude threesome in a jacuzzi . " Sure - - why not ! " There's the political subtext too . The movie was released in 1975 but is placed in November 1968 , meaning the audience knows what will follow . Everyone in the film seems apolitical except for Warden , who hopes things may be different under Nixon , but says , " Ahh , what's the difference ? They're all jerks . " Everyone is dragged to a Republican party on election night to witness and celebrate Nixon's victory and it's all hollow and stilted - - tuxedos and formal gowns and only white folks over 50 allowed . The main speaker is Senator East , played by Brad Dexter , whose only memorable role was as the treacherous , murdering henchman in " The Asphalt Jungle . " East's speech , about an American Indian legend , is suitably grotesque . The contrast with the fun , strobe-lighted hippie gathering couldn't be more obvious . We get to hear Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band and snatches of Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds , almost enough in itself to make 1968 sound paradisaical , though to be sure , these are pretty well-heeled hippies and flower power was to turn into violent half-baked revolutions and 1968 was a great year for assassinations . Still - - okay , Nixonian America was materialistic , Philistine , and shallow in all respects . I didn't vote for Nixon but from our current perspective , that is to say , 2007 , and in light of the circumstances from which we now suffer , Nixon is beginning to look more and more like Saint Francis of Assisi , Watergate , the hit list , and all the rest notwithstanding . I'm not sure that the interpretation I've just outline wasn't exactly the aim of the writers , Warren Beatty and Robert Towne . I might be wrong but both the writers are men of talent and intelligence and the ambiguity might have been what they intended . It's a movie that's filled with ironies that are at the same time bourgeois and heroic . It's well worth watching .
It would have been easy to turn a story like this into a cheap action flick - - heroic downed USAF Colonel fights his way through enemy territory with help of heroic self-sacrificing black pilot . It doesn't happen , exactly . The story , as I understand it , is based on fact , but I don't know how much of it is factual . Maybe the evacuation pilot , Danny Glover , really DID take off alone in a helicopter ( in which he was not qualified ) , rescue Colonel Hambledon ( Gene Hackman ) single-handedly , successfully crash the helicopter he was not qualified in , and maybe the two of them then escape a horde of North Vietnamese pursuers during a " carpet bombing " of the whole area , with Glover sustaining one of those nasty but not unphotogenic shoulder wounds in the process . Maybe it IS true but it sounds a lot like rather routine fiction to me because real life is seldom so tidy . I can believe the part that golf plays in the escape plan . It's so absurd that no writer in his right mind would dream it up . Still - - that having been said - - this is a truly worthwhile movie . Action fans will find lots of exploding fireballs if that's what they're looking for . There will also be wounded smoking helicopters spinning drunkenly downward and a man being blown up in a minefield . But that's not what makes the movie important . The action is usually nothing more than a means to an end . In this case , the end is the education and humanization of Colonel Iceal Hambledon , USAF . He's your normal military men , an expert on electronic countermeasures . He is 53 years old and has spent most of his life in the military . He's never seen combat . And his being shot down constitutes his introduction to what the film shows us is a pretty ugly kind of business . Behind enemy lines he spies a column of NV troops and vehicles and calls in an air strike . Boom . Afterward the NVA shoot one of their own wounded troops , which Hambledon finds nasty . Before he knows it , stumbling through the bush , he finds an empty hootch . While scavenging it for food and water , he is discovered by its owner . Neither man understands the other's language . A physical fight follows which Hambledon can only escape from my shooting and killing the Vietnamese farmer . The farmer's napalm-scarred family show up and rush sobbing to the dead body while Hambledon backs away , stunned , saying stupidly , " I'm sorry . I'm sorry . " There follows a scene in which captured American fliers sacrifice themselves to save Hambledon and the Air Force then demolishes the nearby village full of soldiers and women and children . " Everywhere I go , people die , " Hambledon comments sadly to himself . ( I can't emphasize too strongly how much tragedy Hackman invests his lines with . They emerge as more than simply lines of dialogue . He's a fine , reliable , unflamboyant performer . ) Hambledon vows that he's all done killing people - - and he is , even when he has to opportunity to shoot an armed enemy soldier who is chasing him . The Vietnames is disoriented , twirling about dizzily while a garden of slow motion flame sprouts around him . Hambledon has a bead on him but then shakes his head in disgust and looks away without firing . Danny Glover is good too . As an actor he may have more range than he's usually given credit for . Here , as in the " Lethal Weapon " movies , he's more of a supportive sidekick than anything else . He's the guy on the other end of the line who is there when you must spill your emotions to SOMEONE . Not that he's given trite lines in the part . Hambledon hesitates at one point , then tell him over the radio , " I killed a man today . " " Roger that , " says Glover . He understands what Hambledon's getting at - - but what is there to say ? It's combat , not Oprah Winfrey . Also , anyone who wants to see Glover demonstrate that range might want to check out " Switchback , " in which he is a good-natured , avuncular , laid-back serial killer . Sometimes I wonder if some of us have forgotten just how lousy an experience war is for everyone involved - - for us , for our opponents , and for the civilians drawn willy nilly into it . This film is a decent reminder .
An early effort by the Coen brothers , this is a little like a short story stretched out to feature length but executed with so much suspense and panache that it hardly registers that we are on the scenic route rather than the expressway . Briefly , Frances McDormand , the wife of the moody and embittered Dan Hedaya , is having an affair with John Goetz , an employee of Hedaya's night club in Texas . Hedaya discovers the tryst through the services of the fat , wheezing , repulsive , but compliant private eye , M . Emmet Walsh . Hedaya confronts McDormand in her house of adultery and tries to drag her out to his car . McDormand is a tough babe though . She bites his index finger , spins around and kicks him firmly in the jewels . This comes close to being a cliché in scenes in which strong women are attacked by brutal men , and the scripts ordinarily call for the man to groan and clutch his groin for a moment before springing back to the attack . Not here . Hedaya is positively disabled , falls to his knees in pain , struggles back to his feet , stumbles towards his car , down on his knees again , and vomits . That little scene , in which most of our expectations are violated , is emblematic of the whole film . Nothing goes quite the way it was planned or the way we expect it to . A body that has been shot and remained motionless for hours in a pool of blood comes back to life unexpectedly . But not the way it's usually done , for shock value , as in so many slasher movies . At any rate , Hedaya re-hired Walsh to kill the pair of sinners and dispose of their bodies . Instead , Walsh double-crosses Hedaya and shoots him with McDormand's little revolver , leaving the weapon behind as a frame . Goetz discovers the body and the gun and , believing that McDormand was the shooter , disposes of Hedaya's half-dead body by burying it alive . I'll skip the ending . The Coen brothers have found themselves an honest and original style . And it IS original because it flies in the face of modern trends towards loud musical scores , instantaneous editing , wobbling cameras , shock cuts , lots of gutsy physicality , and a general sense of chaos . The pace is leisurely . Attention is paid to details , sometimes relevant ( a forgotten cigarette lighter ) , sometimes not ( the brass object on which a cigarette is stubbed out ) . But all add to the overall ambiance , with an effect similar to Hitchcock's but done quite differently . The art director should get a prize , but so should many other elements - - photography and lighting in particular . What I'm trying to get across is the notion that this - - and the Coen's subsequent films - - seems made for an adult audience rather than a horde of popcorn-eating , energy-drink-imbibing post adolescents . THAT audience will sit aghast during the climactic violence and wonder why they don't see any exploding squibs and why the accompanying score consists only of a muffled Mexican song from next door rather than some electronic , neuron-numbing , percussive assault . Since 1984 , the Coens have had some ups and some downs . ( The ups include the near-masterpiece " Fargo " . ) None of them have been less than interesting . They're a modest , shambling sort of team , the Coens , and judging from the way they look today , they must have been about nine years old when they made " Blood Simple . " They're among the most individualistic and innovative writers and directors working today . See it .
If you're carrying around inside your head a schema of Michael Moriarty as Ben Stone , Assistant DA on " Law and Order , " the grim , determined , rigidly moral prosecutor , this movie will shake you up . Like an animated cardboard Halloween skeleton he is hardly ever at rest , his skinny frame flapping and wobbling , his hands and fingers splayed defensively . And his voice - - whining and indignant or , when the penny drops and he realizes he has the advantage , defiantly snotty . The guy rattles all over the screen and is a thorough delight to watch and hear . One of the producers was being interviewed and the reporter remarked that the movie was nothing but schlock with a perfect method performance by Moriarty right in the middle of it . The producer beamed and said proudly , " The schlock was my idea . " A neat summary . The movie refuses to take itself seriously . I think sometimes the script tries to get solemn but it can't help chuckling at itself . It's about this big bird or reptile , an Aztec God , who has built a nest and laid an egg in the dome of New York's Chrysler Building . Moriarty is running around trying to escape the mobsters who want to knock him off and he stumbles on the nest and the cadavers strewn around it , a nightmarish sight . When he reaches his trashy apartment his girl friend mentions something about making bacon and eggs . " No eggs , " moans Moriarty , " I never want to see another egg . " The mobsters finally trap Moriarty and he promises to lead them to the money they're after . He takes them to the Chrysler Building and sends them up into the dome where they are gobbled down by Quetzalcoatl . " HAH ! " , Moriarty shrieks as he scurries away - - " EAT ' EM ! EAT ' EM ! " Meanwhile the bird has been putting the snatch on various people from New York's rooftops . A helicopter shot shows us all sorts of interesting things on the rooftops of those tall buildings , some of them looking like the Bavarian castle of Mad King Ludwig , all gingerbread and icing , a fabulous place to throw the right kind of party . David Carradine , as the necessary investigating detective , figures out what's up and shows his boss a sketch of the beast . The boss says something like , " A fifty-foot wingspan ! Wow . With wings like that you could fly in from New Jersey . Everybody know New York's a good place to eat . " ( All of this is played perfectly straight . ) Moriarty marches into the police station , says he knows where the bird has his digs , and says he won't reveal the location unless the city gives him a million dollars and some other things . A detective suggests they go into his office because there are too many reporters around . " Bring ' em in , " says Moriarty . " Bring in the cameras and the newspapers ! Bring RUPERT down here ! " I must say again that Moriarty does a beautiful job of creating this character . He acts ( and often is ) stupid , with his gaping mouth , but he has a seedy kind of intelligence too , the sort of intelligence a frightened greedy child might have . This is a Bob Hope kind of role . There are some in jokes as well . Near the start , Moriarty visits a bar in the Village and claims he's applying for a job as a musician . He sits at the piano and comes up with this engaging but tuneless bebop thing and scats along with it , while the owner watches him and shakes his head in disgust . Sitting at the bar is David Carradine who remarks to Moriarty , " Sounded pretty good to me . " Moriarty : " It did , huh ? you . " Carradine turns back to his drink and mumbles , " What do I know . " Actually he knows quite a lot . He majored in music at San Francisco State , and Moriarty is an accomplished pianist with a couple of commercial recordings . The exchange is repeated at the end of the film , with the dialog changing speakers . Anyway - - I can't stop laughing while I think about this movie - - anyway , Moriarty leads the cops to the nest where they shoot the egg full of holes . There follows an argument over whether Moriarty should get his reward . He claims he's showed them the location , which is what he promised to do , but the police argue that just getting the egg isn't the same as getting the bird . I won't go on . I felt a bit sorry for Q when she met her end . Granted it had all the beauty of the rear end of a Mack truck but , still , doesn't motherhood mean anything to ANYBODY anymore ? Whatever happened to family values ? ? ?
Cary Grant is here , as elsewhere , very likable . Impulsive , playful , flirtatious , devilishly handsome , and above all , charming . Too charming , in fact . There have always been signals behind that dazzling smile and that dashing dimple , that nobody could be so quick , so on top of things , could embody so much savoir-faire . NOBODY could be that good . And here Hitchcock puts the viewer's doubts to effective use . Grant , as Johnny Aysgarth , meets the supposedly homely and spinsterish Lina , Joan Fontaine , and becomes interested in her . He arranges to meet her outside the home of her well-off parents , Dame May Witty and Sir Cedric Hardwicke , both of whom distrust him . But Grant is grand . He steals her away to the top of a windy hill , undoes the top button of her blouse to show off her beautiful unicipal mapillary ( sternoclavicular notch ) and rearranges her hair . She's overcome and later , overhearing her father describe her as a spinster with brains and a nice personality , with no warning , she spins around and gives Grant a great big smooch . Grace Kelly would do the same in " To Catch a Thief , " and it probably comes as a surprise to the audience , but I don't know why . It happens to me all the time . Beautiful women throw themselves at my feet so often that at times it's difficult to walk . Anyway , the two are married and after an expensive honeymoon Grant moves them into an extravagant house with a servant . It's only then that the penniless Grant discovers that her annual allowance will not pay for their expenses . Grant is faced with the prospect of finding a job . He makes rueful jokes about learning how to handle a shovel , then brightly announces that he has a decent offer from a cousin of his , Mr . Melbeck ( Leo G . Carroll ) . But the financial problems persist . Grant involves a cheerful , generous , lovable old friend of his , Nigel Bruce , rather a dull bulb , in a scheme to buy some land and build a development . Not only does the deal fall through but , under mysterious circumstances in Paris , and in the presence of an unidentified English gentleman , Bruce drinks too much brandy and dies from it , an event the prescient Grant could foresee , and the joint corporation is never dissolved . On top of that , good old Johnny , it turns out , has embezzled money from his cousin's firm and charges against him for two thousand pounds are pending . Are we talking about Cary Grant as a MURDERER ? It certainly begins to look that way . Joan Fontaine snoops around in Grant's personal correspondence , as some wives are want to do , and discovers that he's been making inquiries into the status of her life insurance . The purloined letter informs her that Grant has been denied a loan on her insurance , that the only way he can collect is if she dies . Gulp . She loves Grant deeply but he has been looking into poisons that leave no trace , and one night , after a row , he brings her a glass of minatory milk - - the famous glass of milk that Hitchcock planted a light bulb in to make it glow in the dark . Fontaine is convinced that the milk is poisoned . What to do ! There are a couple of notable things about this film , the underlying sliminess of Cary Grant's ingratiating personality aside . First , there is a dinner at the house of a rough-talking woman author , Isobel Sedbusk . ( What a name . ) Her brother , a pathologist with glasses like coke-bottle bottoms , is discussing poisons during the meal and mentions " a corpse that dropped in recently " while deliberately carving a surgical slice of meat from the breast of a small roast fowl . Then there is Mrs . Sedbusk's , umm , companion , Jessie , who , if not a lesbian , certainly should be one , with her hair severely tied back , her mannish features , and her black suit and necktie . Then there is the later visit from two detectives who question Fontaine in her house . One of them , the goofy-looking one , is entranced by a loony looking modern painting in the vestibule . He gawks at it when they enter and again when they leave , and each time his baffled stare is accompanied by a chimerical arpeggio on the piano in Franz Waxman's score . ( The music during the last high-speed sequence was lifted and re-used in Waxman's score for the skiing sequence in " Spellbound . " ) Well , boys and girls , not to worry ! You and I both know that Cary Grant is no murderer ( as he was in the original story ) . Not a bit of it . He was going to poison HIMSELF but then decided it was the coward's way out , so at the end he decides to go back and face the music , even though it means prison . " A man can't change , " he firmly informs Fontaine . " Oh , Johnny , let's go back and face it together , " she begs him - - and so they do . We can all be forgiven , though , for suspecting that Grant in this case may be right . A man can change alright , but given Grant's anti-social history he probably won't . And she'll spend the rest of her life trying to " bring you under control once I get the bit in your teeth , " as she once put it . Joan , you're lovely , blond , English , naive , and vulnerable - - but your eyebrows are asymmetrical . Good luck !
Ostensibly a story about the young child of Jimmy Stewart and Doris Day . The kid gets kidnapped to keep his parents quiet . They know something about a plot to assassinate the ambassador of an unnamed country during a performance at Albert Hall in London . The movie is rich in Hitchcockian incidents . A friendly but opaque Frenchman seems to grill the innocent Stewart - - a doctor from Indiana - - a little too intensely to be merely idly curious . Later the Frenchman shows up in Arab disguise , a knife in his back , and whispers some information about the murder plot to Stewart . Stewart tells his wife - - Doris Day looking very saucy indeed - - but refuses to cooperate with the police and risk his son's life . Instead the couple try to track down the assassins , buy them off , and get their son back , taking them from Morocco , where Hitchcock has given us his usual tourist's eye view of the customs , locations , and food , to London . There is a hilarious wild goose chase involving a set-to between Stewart and the staff of a taxidermy shop . The staff are more concerned about guarding their half-stuffed specimens than anything else , and they shuffle around protectively holding the carcasses of a leopard and a swordfish . In the course of the scuffle , Stewart manages to save his throat from being cut by the swordfish bill , but is bitten on the hand by a stuffed tiger , the action boosted along by Bernard Hermann's bumptious score . The scene ends with Stewart rushing out the door . Hitchcock ends it with a shot of a lion's head gaping at the slammed door . There is also a running gag , well done , about some visitors waiting around the couple's hotel room in London , waiting for things to be explained . There are two serious issues that are lightly touched on . One is the relationship between Stewart and Day , which is not as rosy as it ought to be , considered as a bourgeois ideal . She's been a stage musical star for some years and is internationally known . And she's given it all up to marry an ordinary guy who happens to be a doc . That's understandable in , say , a nurse or a flight attendant or almost any woman other than an international star with a promising career in her own right . It isn't delved into , but the edginess is noticeable , as it was not in the original version . It reminds me a little of an exchange between Joe Dimaggio and his then-wife Marilyn Monroe , who had just returned from entertaining the troops in Korea . " Oh , Joe , " she gushed , " did you ever see ten thousand people stand up and cheer ? " " Seventy thousand , " muttered Joe , former hero of the New York Yankees . The second problem is one of allegiance . Who is of greater social value ? One's own young son ? Or an unknown ambassador . Do we put ourselves or our loved ones at risk for the sake of national stability ? Day is faced with this dilemma in its starkest form at the climax in the Albert Hall . Her solution opts for allegiance to political stability , although her motives are problematic . Does she scream to save the ambassador's life , or does she do so just to release the anxiety that is overwhelming her ? ( Cf : Alec Guiness falling on the detonator at the end of " The Bridge on the River Kwai . " ) The photography is extremely good , and the settings can be menacing , even on a quiet street in a residential neighborhood of London . It's mid-day , and Stewart is alone and determined , but frightened too . There are footsteps echoing on Gulliver Street from someone , somewhere . Is he being followed ? Is his life in danger ? And where the hell is everybody who lives on this street ? Hitchcock pays such close attention to location details that we can make out the garden wall bonding of the bricks beside him . The director had a rare disagreement with Francois Truffaut while being interviewed for Truffaut's otherwise laudatory book . Truffaut argued that the earlier version of " The Man Who Knew Too Much " lacked the depth of the later version . Hitchcock replied , " It seems to me you want me to make films for the art house audience , " but finally agreed that the 1930s version was the work of a talented amateur and this version was the work of a professional . No argument there . This is Hitchcock pretty much near his zenith .
Drenched in the humidity of a New Orleans summer ( that's a rough quote from the florid and unnecessary narration ) , the movie gives us an odd trio . Bobby Long ( Travolta ) is an old ex-literature professor . Lawson Pines ( Macht ) is his protégé and former teaching assistant who is now supposedly writing Bobby Long's biography . Purcy Will ( Johansson ) is an 18-year-old drifter whose mother dies , leaving her the shabby house that Long and Pines have been living in for years . I won't try to describe the situation when Purcy shows up and looks over the house and its occupants . I will let her line describe it : " Oh , sure , I want to live in this shole with two alcoholic strangers . " And , let's face it , the interior of the place is a dark , dank garbage dump of books and Early Orange Crate furniture and one filthy bed , in which Bobby Long is sleeping off a drunk . The outside isn't much better . If it were larger it could have been one of those wrecked mansions now haunted , especially if the yard were cleared of those busted old recliners and rickety tables and decrepit barbecues . The acting is fine . Travolta is pretty good as the down but not quite out patriarch , " the eldest man , " as he puts it . He's a better , more engaging actor than I've been willing to give him credit for . Macht is adequate as a younger guy getting more and more fed up with being Travolta's toady . And Johansson is first rate . Her presence is appealing in a non-Hollywood way . She's not " cute " like Jessica Alba , nor beautiful like Jennifer Connolly . The way she looks , sounds , and acts is sui generis . Her voice has an occasional catch in it , a slight croak , and is anything but mellifluous . Her visual impression is off kilter too : a generous bosom , skinny legs , and a face that is difficult to pin down : the widest cheekbones adorning the modern screen , a broad forehead and narrow chin , plump and sensual lips , and surprisingly graceful eyes - - and she's a decent actress too . All three of the principals are up to professional standards and so are the minor players , each of them individuated by the script . ( One guy has a constant cough , another neighbor is a florist , and so forth . ) But if there's a weakness in the film , it's the plot . Southern writers have a way with words , if not ideas , and they are adept at catching exactly the right words in exchanges . Johansson dreams of becoming an X-Ray technician because " the bones look so good on the light boxes . Kinda like a portrait , only on the inside . " That's not bad writing . Sometimes , though , however dazzling and pellucid the dialog , the stories themselves tend to whine away like flywheels building up momentum but going nowhere . Beth Henley's stories have this same problem and Tennessee Williams ran into it once in a while too . The dramatic events in these sharply observed lives sometimes come to feel shoehorned in . There is often a Big Secret , hinted at but not revealed until the plot cries out for some kind of drama . ( This movie has two secrets . ) Somebody usually dies at the end because without such a momentous climax it might seem as if the camel had labored to bring forth a gnat . There is a death at the end of this movie too , but although we can see it coming we are mercifully spared the suffering and sadness and the deathbed revelations . The photography and location shooting are fine too . We only see a few minutes of the French Quarter and there is no Mardi Gras . The features of the city that we do see are small ones , carefully observed . Somebody is munching on a " poor boy " as submarine sandwiches are called in that neighborhood . The local bar , whose manager is a nice guy , has the go-to-hell name of Rock Bottom Cafe . And , man , those neighborhoods are seedy and broken down . I don't suppose they exist anymore , not after Katarina earlier this year . Can't decide whether it's good or bad . The neighborhoods looked poor but comfortable and , above all , tolerant . Actually , despite whatever criticisms I may have made , I applaud this movie . It was made for adults . There is not a fist fight in it , nor a car chase or explosion . People lead pretty ordinary lives and their triumphs are tiny while their defeats may be grand ones . It's slow but it draws one in . The sentiment goes overboard once in a while , but I was moved when Travolta and Johansson embraced tearfully before the end . A rewarding film . They should make more like it .
What an entertaining movie . Astaire and Randolph Scott are in the Navy . Astaire has to woo back Ginger in San Francisco , while Scott must be persuaded that Harriet Hilliard is worthy of being his wife . Everything works out fine . It's sometimes argued , and I can see why , that Scott's romance with Hilliard is unnecessary and slows the plot down . Especially painful are Hilliard's singing of sappy love songs . I could have done without her singing , right enough , but I found the romance rather touching . Hilliard enters the movie as a music teacher , wearing a pair of spectacles , no makeup , and the ugliest clothes known to man or beast . No wonder Scott avoids her until she grooms herself sexily under the tutelage of her sister Ginger and a slinky Lucille Ball . The problem is that AFTER her makeover she looks like the same irretrievably plain woman as before , only with a glossier outfit . It's tough enough for a homely guy . But at least a man can become wealthy and powerful and popular , then he can collect women anyway , even if he looks like JoJo the Dog-Faced Boy . But what does a plain-looking woman do ? The same avenues to romance aren't open to her . Henry Kissinger had groupies . Did Margaret Thatcher ? It must be terrible to be an ordinary woman in a culture as cruel as ours . As a kind of a footnote , I must mention that Randolph Scott was rumored to be bisexual by Hollywood gossips who needed some nonsense to chew on , and it's kind of amusing that he has the following line in this film when he's putting homely Hilliard off - - " Women don't interest me , sister . " The movie probably gives more quality time to Ginger Rogers than any of her other films with Astaire . And she's marvelous . She's beautiful , sexy , a talented actress and dancer , and the script gives her good comic lines too . " Let's kiss and make up , " suggests Astaire . " Let's just make up , " she says , " that will give you something to work on . " It's also the only film she made with Astaire that gives her a solo number during an audition . ( Choreographed by Hermes Pan . ) Her performance is accidentally sabotaged by Astaire who slips some Alka Seltzer or something into her water , and she hiccups through her number , burping being too indelicate for the time . As a dancer , I'd make a terrific circus elephant so my opinion must be taken as that of an amateur , but I think their dances together are the equal of any they put on film . Their first , during a dancing contest , " Let Yourself Go , " is the most wildly exuberant of any I can remember . And the only dramatic duet , " Let's Face the Music and Dance , " must be among their finest . The last step as they exit is startling . I like the film for reasons with personal resonance . I remember seeing it for the first time in a theater in downtown San Diego , next to a shop called " The Seven Seas " that catered to sailors . I was in uniform at the time and was impressed with the treatment of the naval careers of Astaire and Scott . What I mean is , here we have this frothy musical comedy which owed absolutely nothing to historical reality , and yet , unlike most of their other teamings , pays its dues anyway . Jumping ship , Astaire calls out for a " water taxi . " I had just taken a water taxi ashore myself . The uniforms are correct to the period ( unlike , say , those in " On the Town " ) . And they're worn properly , hats down to two finger-widths above the eyebrow and not cocked back . And there are two incidents in which Astaire runs into a problem with naval authorities and they're both handled with perfect seriousness and are thoroughly believable . An officer stops Astaire from leading a jazz band during inspection and reports to the captain , " They were playing when the call was sounded , sir . I'm certain no breach of discipline was intended . " It's what an officer - - a good officer - - would say , and nobody laughs . The series was getting a little repetitious by the time " Follow the Fleet " was made so instead of putting Fred into high society and a tuxedo , they turned him into a gum-chewing swabbie instead . It was a good idea . And the dance numbers are up to the concept .
A pretty good , ensemble movie about political intrigues and the personal secrets and ideologies that propel them . Henry Fonda is the titular star but , really , there are half a dozen people who play important roles with , arguably , Don Murray's being the most dramatic and challenging . The plot . President Franchot Tone wants his nomination for Secretary of State , Fonda , to be confirmed by the Senate . There are senators who don't want to see Fonda get the job because he's too liberal or because of past feuds or both ( Charles Laughton ) . Others , like George Grizzard , are the most smegmaphagous of politicians who want to see Fonda get the job and are willing to stoop to blackmail to see him get it . The Chair of the Senate Subcomittee that is conducting the hearings , Don Murray , is a man of principle who plays by the rules and is holding off his judgment on Fonda . Fonda has a problem , see . At one time , mostly out of curiosity , he attended a few meetings of a communist cell in Chicago . Fonda's sworn enemy , Laughton , brings in an eye witness to Fonda's early mistakes , Burgess Meredith , but Fonda destroys him on the stand by proving that Meredith has made misstatements about his own past , including hiding the fact that he spent time in a psychiatric hospital . Burgess Meredith , with only a little screen time , gives the most nuanced performance . I don't want to get into the plot any farther because it's complicated and explication would take too much space and ruin too many surprises . And there ARE surprises . Here is one of them . This film was shot in 1961 during the Cold War , when the United States was bitterly divided on many issues . Yet the conflicts , in their essence , are still with us . Charles Laughton , not unreasonably , stands for firmness in dealing with the enemy . Let's stand up on our hind legs and fight back and not sacrifice our liberties or our dignity . We never have and we never will . Fonda , who is called an " egghead " in the film , is a former professor at the University of Illinois who sees nothing wrong with negotiations and compromise , depending on circumstances , and who feels that our diplomacy shouldn't be determined by pride . George Grizzard is a grimly vicious senator who plays all kinds of dirty pool and is willing to bring the temple down with him if he can't get his way . If some of that doesn't resonate , I don't know what will . Only the name of the enemy seems to have changed . Charles Laughton is as blubbery and crapulous as always but not nearly as animated as in earlier roles . He was dying of spinal cancer and it's a wonder he could walk at all . A long-ago homosexual experience plays an important part in the plot , leading to a suicide . Those attitudes , at least , have become more diverse . Sometimes politicians who are outed resign , sometimes they deny everything and continue with their careers , and sometimes they admit their gender orientation freely and continue in office , judged by their political values rather than what they do in the boudoir . Both Laughton and Grizzard might have had problems along those lines if they'd been involved in politics . And one wonders if the director , Otto Preminger , went out of his way to see well-known political activists cast as politicians - - Don Murray , Will Geer , Henry Fonda , Franchot Tone , Lew Ayres . Perhaps not . It's an interesting film with some good performances and , in the end , strikes me as a balanced piece of didactation rather than a propaganda piece .
I have a kind of synchronistic relationship with this movie . I had dinner in a Chinese restaurant in Washington , DC , called " Chin's " , and the next day sensed in the theater that the Chinese guy would be called " Chin . " A bit later I bought a worn paperback copy of the novel in Mrs . Cohen's bookstore in South Windsor , Connecticut , not expecting much . The dialogue in the movie was stilted . I figured the novel was just some exercise in style . But that was wrong . The novel is even better than the movie . Charles Portis has got Arkansas of circa 1890 down pat . I looked up in the DARE all those expressions that didn't immediately click with me - - " blue john " , " that's a big story , " " barlow knife , " " dogfall , " " Christmas gift " - - and they all work . Portis hit every nail on the head , and not only with respect to lexicon . The novel as a whole is beautifully done . Not to denigrate the movie , though . Kim Darby and the other players are good . John Wayne is excellent as a character actor . His performance here ranks up there with his Captain Brittles in " She Wore a Yellow Ribbon . " Why in God's name , after this , did he go back to his usual heroic roles in dismissable efforts like " The Train Robbers . " Every word he utters here is " Rooster Cogburn , " not " John Wayne , " except for one exchange on horseback about Quantrell . Hoarse , drunk , smelly , weighty - - he embodies the part . The cinematography is without equal . Sharp , smooth . A viewer almost smells the junipers and pinon pines of the Colorado mountains and feels the nightly chill in the air and whiffs the campfire smoke . A marvelously done novel turned into as good a movie as possible . At one point , with nothing much being made of it , Kim Darby says of alcohol , " I would not put a thief in my mouth to steal my brains . " Portis shouldn't get credit for that because it is a quote from Shakespeare . I won't identify the play .
Ten people , almost all strangers to one another , are invited to spend a weekend at a house on an isolated island . Shortly after they introduce themselves , the recorded voice of their absent host , U . N . Owen , accuses them each of murder . Each protests his innocence and claims not to ever have met Mr . Owen . They are nevertheless picked off one by one in manners consistent with a childhood jingle - - " Ten Little Indians , one chopped himself in half and then there were eight , " or whatever . The end of the novel has the police arriving and finding all ten of the guests dead by one or another means , from poisoning to hanging . Now THAT was an ending . But it was a little bitter for the screen , I suppose , and in this movie - - and in later refilmings - - a young man and young woman outsmart Mr . U . N . Owen ( " Unknown , " get it ? ) and survive . Just as well . If anybody should survive it's June Duprez , a luscious exotic-looking twenty-eight when she made this movie . Her eyes are set so far apart that she looks part alien . I suggest , without intending any disrespect , that if you shook her family tree an extra-terrestrial might fall out of it . I'm not so sure about Louis Hayward as the cocky young hero , but okay - - let's let him survive too . The other performances are quite good , given the restrictions of the genre . Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston , as the judge and the doctor respectively , are outstanding . Fitzgerald - - it's hard to believe he was ever serious about a word he said , on or off screen . When he smiles , his lips curve up from ear to ear , just beneath his nose , and under that smile is a quadruple chin . What a marvelous face and voice . The print I saw was old and scratchy but , well , this is a marvelously enjoyable film , probably the best adaptation of the Christie story . It's one of her best jigsaw puzzles and I was unable to spot any holes in the plot . There are some comic elements too . The butler finds himself under suspicion by the others and gets staggering drunk , not funny in itself , but played well . When the butler says resentfully that he's going to show them the cocktails are not poisoned by drinking all of them , the others protest - - " Oh , no need for that , Rogers . " But when Rogers adds , " And just for that , there will be no supper tonight , " the others jump to their feet and run howling after him . The murders all take place off screen and their dramatic content is quickly blown off . Rogers ' wife dies in her sleep and informed of this , Rogers tells the others that he will be unable to provide breakfast . The guests pooh pooh his protests , excusing him . End of Mrs . Rogers . In fact , NOBODY who is bumped off is ever mourned or even mentioned again except in a wisecrack or two . Rene Clair directed efficiently with no noticeable flair except that on occasion when a character speaks to the others he faces the camera directly . The ominous mood that ought to be present throughout is strangely absent . The sets look cheap . A heavy rainstorm isn't convincing , but , as I say , this was an old print and perhaps that's partly to blame . You'll probably like this one . It's good enough to watch more than once , even though you already know the ending . The story is up there with Christie's best .
It's hard to know exactly what to make of this film because it doesn't follow the usual narrative structure . Bad things happen to people , whether they are good , bad , or indifferent . And the soft-spoken but menacing murdering man in black who simply kills anyone who gets in his way , and even a couple who don't , walks away into the sunset . And the hero , Tommy Lee Jones as the aging Texas sheriff , isn't on screen for very long and , in his climactic scene , merely relates to Tess Harper an unilluminating dream he had last night . But , although I didn't always know what was going on , what OUGHT to come next , I will assume that the Coen brothers did and accept the film as projecting some kind of coherent philosophy about life - - even if that philosophy goes something like : " Chance , the fall of a coin , plays such an important role in life that any coherent philosophy about it is impossible . " Very briefly , a young Texan ( Josh Brolin ) hunting deer stumbles on the aftermath of a drug double-cross . The ground is strewn with bodies . Ignoring the pleas of a wounded man for water , Brolin pokes around and finds a bag filled with half a million or so dollars and makes off with the satchel . He packs off his wife and mother-in-law to safety , but a transponder is concealed in the satchel , allowing Javier Bardem to follow him around and engage in the occasional shoot out . Bardem , with his incongruously saintly eyes , is one of those killers who is impossible to stop . He's like Schwarzenegger's robot in " Terminator " or any one of a dozen other stereotypes . Tommy Lee Jones is Tom Bell , the disillusioned sheriff who tracks Brolin in an attempt to save him , and fails . Barry Corbin makes a brief appearance as an ex-lawman with even less optimism than Jones , who lives in a dump even messier and more thoroughly debauched than my own . There are other familiar faces in the cast ( Tess Harper , Woody Harrelson ) but what sticks in the mind are the bit parts - - the elderly Texan in the isolated gas station , for instance , whose life apparently depends on whether a tossed quarter falls heads up . He seems to have been plucked at random from the streets of Alpine . Or Brolin's mother-in-law , Beth Grant , a garrulous woman with terminal cancer . When a man offers to carry her luggage to the station , she comments , " Well , there's at least one gentleman left in west Texas . " But then she adds , " You don't often see a Mexican wearing a suit . " This is a darker story than the Coen's " Fargo . " " Fargo " had one psychopath and one low-level thug , and the rest were ordinary characters with weaknesses . In this film , the greedy and murderous outnumber the good . But , I suppose , following the novel , the blame isn't pinned on regional character . One frazzled sheriff tells Jones that it's all the drug money and the kids with green hair . Jones replies with ambiguous insincerity that he gave up hope when kids stopped using " sir " and " ma'am " as terms of address . The story certainly STARTS with drug money but then it seems to move on inexorably from there , turning into a contest of wills mediated by accident . A flirtatious young woman at a motel pool asks Brolin why he's always looking out the window . " Oh , just to see what's comin ' . " And she says , " You never see what's comin ' . " How right she is . A car running a stop sign when you're not paying attention can ruin your life . At any rate , the Coens have done for the values , people , and landscape of southwest Texas what they did for snowbound Minnesota in " Fargo . " In Texas , if you want a gun you walk in and buy it . The majority of folks are given to categorical thinking but aren't unkind . And the landscape is raw and arid , no country for old men , not anymore . It's a pretty good film . The Coens are among the most original writers and directors working today .
This is a good movie , and a brave one , for several reasons . The plot and other elements of the film have been covered elsewhere , so I'd like to just make a few comments on the role of race in the Vietnamese conflict . The combat experience in Vietnam was an almost perfect mirror of a famous social psychology experiment by Muzafer Sheriff called , " The Robbers Cave " study . This may look a little dull but it's important and relevant . Under controlled conditions , Sheriff brought two matched groups of boys to a Boy Scout Camp in the middle of nowhere . In Phase One , the two groups had no contact with one another but gave themselves names ( The Eagles and the Rattlers ) and lived separately . They developed an intense in-group bonding . In Phase Two , the Eagles and the Rattlers were brought together in competition with one another - - sports and so forth . And each group developed an intense antagonism for the other , an " us-against-them " set of attitudes . The hostility grew so strong that the experimenters cut Phase Two short so it wouldn't become physically dangerous . In Phase Three , the competitive tasks were removed and replaced by tasks requiring cooperation for the good of both groups together . The crises were artificially created by the experimenters and involved joint jobs like hauling water when the pump broke down , pulling a truck when the engine quit , and so on . The conflict disappeared when it was replaced by what Sheriff called " a superordinate goal " or " a superordinate enemy . " The film illustrates the kind of bonding that takes place when the Eagles and the Rattlers are faced with a superordinate enemy , in this story the VC . There's no question that racial identities were retained , but they were overshadowed by allegiance to the group . They had to be , for the sake of survival . The casual and sometimes friendly interaction between African-Americans and whites is even more surprising when you consider that this takes place in the late 1960s , the era of Black Power , the Zebra killings , campus takeovers , and so on . None of that social movement filters into Vietnam . There may or may not be atheists in foxholes , but there seem to be far fewer racists . Enough boring stuff . I mentioned that the film was brave because Stone was the first guy to come out with a film that dealt directly with the ordinary grunts in the Vietnam war . No politics or anything . None of that , " Why are we here ? " business . The war is just a matter of getting through one day after another , shorter and shorter , until you can get out of it . The usual stereotypes are either absent entirely or weak . Nobody is a wise guy from Brooklyn . And there is no braggart from Texas . And Sgt . Elias is not " good " in contrast to Sgt . Barnes ' " bad " guy . He's a better human being than Barnes , but not a better soldier . Overall , it's an instructive film coming from somebody who was there . And the director doesn't try to drive us nuts with razzle dazzle techniques as he sometimes does in his later work .
There's a scene in " Some Like it Hot " in which Jack Lemmon dances a tango with Joe E . Brown . The tune is a famous one , La Cumparasita or something like that , turned into an American pop song in the 1950s with English lyrics and named " Strange Sensations . " Anyway , the dance is played for laughs . Well , it's understandable . The conventions of the tango seem so automated to someone used to other forms . But what surprised me here was the flexibility of the form , the way it is adapted to circumstances . There is , of course , a number here in which two or three dancers express intense passion , the emotion we usually associate with the tango . But there is also a number that is informed by humor . Suarez , who is about to direct a show featuring the tango , native to Argentina , is alone in his studio , talking to himself about the folly of falling in love , and he imagines a scene in which the silhouettes of two dancers perform a comic number , waggling their bottoms at the camera , the music bumping along in the background featuring a few strings and a flatulating tuba , itself an amusing instrument in sound and appearance . Thank you Lalo Schifrin . As an Hispanic himself , Schifrin knows what he's doing . ( He makes good use of the bandoneon , a kind of concertina , too . ) There is a less-successful number that uses boots and military uniforms in an evocation of the period in the 1970s and 1980s when citizens of Argentina were " disappeared . " There are tango-tinged encounters between men and others involving women , that are homosexual in effect . And sometimes there is no music behind the dances at all - - only the natural sounds of clothing rustling and soles squeaking on the wooden floor as the performers twist and turn . Let me get back to that homosexual dance between the two women . One of them , if I got it right , is Suarez's ex wife , a superb dancer played by Cecilia Narova . The younger one is played by Mia Maestro . The dance ends with a sensuous kiss , and I can understand why another woman might want to kiss Maestro . I could understand it even if some twisted extraterrestrial whose native notion of esthetic perfection looked like the inside of an alarm clock wanted to kiss Maestro . She is egregiously beautiful , two-thirds Diane Venora and one third Audrey Hepburn , and sports what must be , even to the most jaded eye , a nearly perfect body whose movements are entirely under her own control . Her high kicks beat those of Eleanor Powell . And when her numbers freeze in tableaux , it would be perfectly okay if she just retained those balletic poses for , oh , say five or six minutes so we can burn the images into our brains . I don't think the human form and the suppleness of which it is capable has ever been displayed more elegantly . Not to put down Fred and Ginger . That's a different ballroom game . The Spanish as spoken is appropriately Argentinian too , for what it's worth . The pronunciation is regional and so is the grammar . I say this out of complete ignorance of the language except for that which comparative linguists tell us . And a chat buddy in Buenos Aires . ( Besos a vos , mi companera ) . The plot is nothing much . Abstract and arty and colorful . Saura's 8 . Suarez , the benign director of a musical show , falls for Maestro . She is living with a Mafioso who is a dangerous dude , sub specie aeternitatus . But she tells the Mafioso off anyway and stalks off as he shouts after her - - " You're making a big mistake . " If it did turn out to be a mistake we don't learn about it . The movie ends happily if trickily . I want to emphasize that the dances are just about everything here . They bear about the same relationship to Lemon and Brown's tango as Fred and Ginger's superbly rehearsed dances do to the twist . There is one number by Maestro in which she does nothing but walk around slowly and strike an occasional pose . It's stunning in it simplicity and sensuousness . And in the duets , the dancers hold each other so close through so many acrobatic movements that , without stretching too much , I can imagine one false step bringing them tumbling to the floor wrapped up in each other . The photography and lighting ( by Vittorio Storaro ) is superlative and the art direction equally so . Everything takes place in a carefully designed studio with mirrors and stages and painted backdrops scattered around . Sometimes we don't know if we're looking into a mirror or seeing the " real " scene . Nor can we always be sure that what we're watching is taking place in " real " life or in Suarez's imagination - - sometimes the imaginary turns into the real . But none of this detracts from our understanding of the film . The " double " structure is not simple directorial self display , nor is it just more hokum about " what's reality and what's illusion ? " . It adds visual texture to a film that already has more than a dozen Hollywood monstrosities could hold . It's really art , without quotation marks around it .
Ealing Studios turned out a series of comic gems in the late 40s and early 50s and this is a good example . Only a curmudgeon would not laugh aloud during some of the scenes . The plot , briefly , involves a clever bank clerk ( Guiness ) developing a plan with a die caster ( Holloway ) to steal several million pounds of gold bullion , recast it into tourist knicknacks in the shape of Eiffel Tower paperweights , and ship it to Paris to sell on the black market . They recruit two professional thieves to help them . It may not be Ealing's best comedy ( my vote would be for " The Lady Killers " ) but it's more than funny enough . I'll just give three scenes as examples . ( 1 ) Holloway and Guiness , two honest men , need to recruit what they call a " mob " but have no idea how to go about it . What I mean is - - how would YOU go about recruiting criminal assistants ? What they do is go to crowded places of low repute - - saloons , prize fights , the underground - - and shout at each other through the noise about the safe being broken at such-and-such an address and all that money having to be left in it . Then they hole up at the address and wait for the burglars to arrive . ( 2 ) A scene at the Eiffel Tower in which they discover that half a dozen of the gold paperweights instead of the usual leaden ones have been sold to some English schoolgirls . They watch horrified as the door closes and the elevator carrying the girls begins its descent , and they decide to rush down the tightly spiraling staircase to ground level , trying to beat the elevator . By the time they reach the street they've been spun around so many times that they can't stop laughing and are unable to stop twirling around until they fall down . ( 3 ) After the robbery , in an empty warehouse soon to be searched by the police , Guiness must be tied up , gagged , and blindfolded with tape . Then his clothes must be torn and dirtied so that it appears he put up a fight before the gold was taken . But the police arrive too soon , and the others beat it , leaving Guiness standing alone , tied up , and blindfolded , but not dirty . He stumbles about blindly , trying to blow the tape from his mouth , getting his feet caught in discarded bicycle wheels , until he falls into the Thames . Probably the weakest part of the movie is near the end , when police cars wind up chasing one another because of confusing messages . The scene could have been lifted from Laurel and Hardy . It's a little silly . ( Why didn't Guiness and Holloway park the stolen car , get out , and walk away ? ) But that's a minor consideration . What surprises me about some of these comedies is that they're able to make us laugh despite the dreary atmosphere . The streets of London look awfully dismal in this grainy black and white film . Some of them were still charred wrecks left over from the Blitz . But it doesn't dampen the comedy at all . Following the successful robbery a drunken Guiness and Holloway return to their boarding house to be chided by their landlady for being " naughty " . One pulls the other aside , chuckling conspiratorially , and the two agree to call each other " Al " and " Dutch " - - two REAL BIG gangsters for you . If you need to use up some neuropeptides this is your movie .
Gregory Peck is Jimmy Ringo , a gunfighter with three vengeful brothers on his tail and a squirt in every town ready to challenge him for the title of fastest gun . He stops for a few hours in Cayenne , barely escaping a couple of potentially lethal contretemps , especially a face off with the local fast boy , Skip Homeier , and tries to arrange a meeting with his estranged wife , Helen Westcott , and their son , whom he hasn't seen for years . Peck's old friend , the Marshall , Millard Mitchell , tries to make a meeting possible but Westcott isn't interested . She's taken a new name and has begun a new life in the role of what is invariably called " a schoolteacher " in Westerns . With the three Furies riding closer and the clock ticking town , one thing after another delays Peck's departure , until finally he meets his wife and child . Then it turns out that he's hung around town just a little too long . This was one of a series of what were called " adult Westerns . " That is , they didn't involve continual shoot outs and galloping horses , and everyone wasn't clean shaven , and the good guys didn't necessarily wear the white cowboy hats . In fact , Peck's outfit here is downright drab - - and his hat is black . The producers balked at the realism . Gregory Peck , Twentieth's rising star , wears a villainous black mustache . His hair looks as if it had been cut with a bowl over his head and sometimes ( gasp ) it looks positively MUSSED UP . But it all fits the character of a drifting gunfighter whose presence awes the innocent and stimulates the high achievers . In fact , it's a pretty good movie . Much like " High Noon , " which appeared the same year , a lot depends on that clock ticking away the minutes in the saloon where Peck is holed up . Every tick ratchets up the suspense . And the story is a taut one . Little time is wasted on diversions . The pace is quick and the events drive the plot along . A professional job . That set of strengths also contributes to the film's weakness . The entire concept of " the fastest gun in the West " being as widely known as a Roman gladiator or a modern basketball player is hard to swallow . The printed prologue tells us that in the 1880s , a man's life could depend on a fraction of a second . That's the kind of notion that high school freshmen might buy but adults might wonder about . I mean , what is this , a story about the quest for the ping pong championship ? Every town has its young squirt out to make a name for himself by becoming the man who killed Jimmy Ringo . Really ? The squirt is liable to sneer at Ringo and his reputation . " He don't look so tough to me . " And , " He's only got two hands , ain't he ? " The two squirts we see in action - - Richard Jaekel and Skip Homeier - - are pretty stupid to put their lives on the line the way they do . First they talk out of the sides of their mouths , aiming insinuations deliberately at Peck , who does his best to ignore them . Then the insults become more straightforward and louder . Unless Peck can bluff them out of a draw , he is forced to let them draw first . Strictly conventional comic-book stuff . Helen Westcott is weak as Peck's wife , and it's kind of an important role too . But the other performers are seasoned and believable . Jean Parker is quite good as Molly , an old friend Peck runs into , among so many old friends . Millard Mitchell is stalwart as the reformed outlaw who has taken the job of Marshall . Or is it Sheriff - - it never makes any difference . And Karl Malden does his usual , reliable turn as the bartender and owner of Cayenne's saloon . Skip Homeier's hard charger is difficult to evaluate . He looks the part . Slightly revolting . And he sounds right . Even his callow boasts sound like a child whining for approval . But one is never certain that this isn't Skip Homeier , rather than the character he's playing . Gregory Peck is quite good in the central role . He's entirely sympathetic , and he's even allowed a few moments of light comedy that he carries off well . The strengths of the movie far outweigh its weaknesses . If it's not a masterpiece , so what ? Few Westerns are - - or can be . ( " Shane " was about as close as any is liable to come . ) At least it's not The Three Mesquiteers . Few shots are fired in the film , and only two people wind up with bullets in them . The emphasis here is on tension and character , and the effort put into the film is rewarded .
Bad original title there . It sounds as if Ben Johnson should be at the controls and Charles Bronson should be the expert who figures out how to save all the passengers except the nut-case villain , maybe Dennis Hopper , who expires along with all the machinery in an exploding fireball as the locomotive plummets from an open bridge into a ravine . But , nope . Kurasawa was having his problems at the time he supervised the writing of this story and it was given over to Konchalavsky to direct . There aren't very many characters in the film . Mainly John Voight , Eric Roberts , and Rebecca DeMornay ( looking fresh faced , freckled , and quite attractive ) , with John Ryan thrown in mainly to provide a real flesh-and-blood living villain , in addition to the impalpable philosophical ones that are everyone's chief concern . Existentialism is one of those now practically-dead passing French intellectual fads , become a word now loosely thrown around that can mean pretty much anything you want . But in its original post-war form it had a rather specific definition , if you could distill it from Sartre and Camus . The main point was that existence precedes essence , meaning that you weren't born for any particular purpose - - good or bad - - and that you defined yourself through voluntary actions . The second point was that social rules meant very little and could be disregarded at will , as long as you were ready to accept the consequences of breaking those rules . This whole movie illustrates exactly those points in a symbolic , yet realistic and exciting way . Voight and Roberts are introduced in a rather lengthy , suspenseful introduction set in a Northwestern prison run by Ryan . They escape by slipping naked through a long and filthy sewer pipe and are shot out through the air into a clear cold fast-running river . ( Getting the anatomical allusions here ? ) They manage to steal some clothes and board the empty , second locomotive of a train whose sole engineer drops dead and falls off . ( The engineer stands for Somebody , too , with a capital S . I hope you're getting all this . ) Another passenger is discovered . Always nice to have a young woman around . But with nobody at the controls of the unreachable lead locomotive , and with its brakes burned out , the train begins to pick up speed . The three of them wind up stuck on a train rocketing in the general direction of nowhere and , try as they may , they have no influence over its course or speed . Worst of all , it's rapidly approaching a " dead end " ( get that one ? ) . By means of ingenuity , sacrifice , and simple human doggedness the lead locomotive is uncoupled from the rest of the train . While the remaining cars slowly roll to a halt , the lone locomotive roars towards its finish . We don't see the expectable slow-motion drop and explosion for the simple reason that we don't need to . We already know the end is upon us - - I mean upon the " train . " And the final image , of Voight standing alone atop this hurtling monster of speed , weight , and power , holding his arms upward in defiance , the air filled with huge flakes of wet snow , is finish enough . You don't need a fireball after that climactic shot . I'm afraid I've made this movie out to be some sort of dumb , talky , too-long allegory - - but believe me , it's not . The simple narrative itself is riveting . I can hardly remember another movie in which the performers seemed so terribly cold and uncomfortable , wrapped in rags , caps pulled in an unsightly way around their ears , their faces flushed by the whistling wind , their fear and desperation so visible in everything they do , their failures and minor triumphs looming so pathetically large in the story . This train - - or the compartment of the locomotive , which is about all of the interior we see - - has no oysters on the half shell , nor a nice warm Franklin stove or any other source of heat . It's nothing more than cold iron , and we are all aboard , bound for the end of the line . What a gripping picture . How did Goldang Globus Hystericus ever manage to produce such a great film ?
What a neatly done job this is . Tony Randall is Rock Hunter , a minor functionary at a Madison Avenue advertising agency ( this is a 1950s comedy and Mad Ave was the target of many jokes ) . He's about to be furloughed from his organization and then , by accident , manages to nail the outrageous Jayne Mansfield for her endorsement of the Stay-Put Lipstick account . Jayne doesn't care about the account but she wants to make her boyfriend back in Hollywood jealous so she pretends to be Randall's sex slave . An embarrassed Randall goes along with it . It all creates more ripples than Brittany Spears and Fed Ex or other couples of that ilk . Pretty much everything works . The director , Frank Tashlin , knew his way around a comedy , having been responsible for a number of cartoons . He recognizes a good sight gag when he sees one . Watch the door open and the diminutive Tony Randall appear , back lighted , dressed in the over-sized suit of a muscle man , and wearing elevator shoes , staggering around like Frankenstein's monster . He knows his hilarious dialog too . Randall is speaking to Mansfield's boyfriend , Bobo Branigansky , and pretending to be president of his ad agency . " Of course I'm the president - - but Miss Marlowe will be the TITULAR head of the company . " Mansfield shrieks with delight , grabs Randall , and gives him an open-mouthed kiss , smothering half his face with her huge , blubbery lips . In a later scene , after having half his clothes ripped off by frenzied fans , Randall is offered a drink by the sympathetic Joan Blondell . Asked what he'd like , the morose Randall replies - - " I don't know . Make it something simple , a bottle and a straw . " I don't want to give away any more of the gags , and the story isn't so convoluted that it hasn't already been limned in . Let me add , though , that it's exceptionally well acted by everyone involved . Note , in particular , one long speech done in a single take with Henry Jones , as he explains to Tony Randall that success is nothing more than being in the right place at the right time . How dull it could have been . Yet Jones , with his passionate , dramatic , outrageous sing-song , makes it both gripping and extremely funny . It's my understanding that the movie doesn't follow the play closely but I don't care . It has its own highly original touches . The movie is interrupted , for instance , by Randall who addresses the " TV fans in the audience " and demonstrates the failures of the luminescent orb in a way that makes us appreciate HDTV all the more . That scene couldn't have been in the play . See it if you have the chance , even if you've seen it before . It's anodyne . It will chase the blues away .
A lot of directors have taken a crack at the comedy-laced thriller , among them , most notably , Alfred Hitchcock , but probably none have topped this for sheer entertainment value . Cary Grant is a stereotypical Madison Avenue advertising man in the 1950s , shallow and given to " expedient exaggerations . " He's urban , well groomed , and tan as only Cary Grant can be tan . By accident , he is misidentified as George Kaplan , a non-existent government agent . He's kidnapped by foreign operatives who try to kill him . When he manages to escape he's framed for a murder . With the police after him , he boards a train for Chicago in pursuit of the real " Kaplan " , who of course is nothing more than a CIA-inspired fiction who occupies prop hotel rooms , wears prop clothes , and has prop dandruff . On the train he bumps into the savagely seductive Eva Marie Saint . This at least is no accident . She's a double agent , working for the suave spy , James Mason , and secretly for the CIA's Leo G . Carroll . The double pursuit - - the cops after Grant , Grant after " Kaplan " - - becomes twisted and winds up on the faces of the four presidents at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota . At the exciting climax , Cary Grant has shed some of his callousness and has committed his love and his life to Eva Marie Saint . His monogrammed matchbooks , " R . O . T . " , standing for Roger Thornhill and also for " rot " are no longer relevant . There are some splendid examples of black and white feature films . Who could improve on Gregg Toland's photography in " Citizen Kane " or the striking and sinuous contrasts in " The Maltese Falcon " or the bleak gaiety captured in " La Dolce Vita " ? But this one cries out for a big screen , color , and surround sound to accommodate composer Bernard Hermann's musical score , that opens and closes with a wild fandango . Okay . Visualize one of the sequences here , probably the best known . Kaplan has supposedly agreed to meet Grant at " Prairie Stop , Indiana . " It's nothing more than a spot in the middle of a two-dimensionally flat wasteland - - no trees , no buildings , no hills , nothing but vast , tawny plowed plots and a parched cornfield nearby , all shimmering in the heat . Grant waits silently as the occasional car whizzes past . Nothing is happening . Then a man is dropped off across the highway . The two strangers are alone , staring at each other across the pavement . Minutes go by as they do nothing but stare , Grant puzzled ( " Is this Kaplan ? " ) , the other inexpressive . The other guy turns out to be a know-nothing local and after he departs on a bus , Grant is attacked by an airplane and barely escapes with his life . For the many people who have seen this sequence , let me ask them to imagine this shot in the traditional small screen ratio and done in black and white . It would lose half its impact . Some critics have , I think , over-interpreted the movie . I doubt that the title is taken from from Hamlet : " I am but mad north-northwest : when the wind is southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw . " There's Grant's ambiguous relationship with his mother ( a favorite Hitchcock theme in serious contexts ) , the wary love story , the development of Grant's character . But in this instance those features are trivialized . It's really a complicated , sublimely executed chase thriller at heart . Ernest Lehman's script includes many amusing incidents and some of them are very funny indeed . Not just snappy dialog - - " Something wrong with your eyes , Mister ? " " Yes , they're sensitive to questions . " But whole scenes that are laugh-out-loud comic - - Grant making a fool of himself at a public auction in order to attract the attention of the police . ( The scene was prefigured in the much earlier " All Through the Night " and later imitated in " The Prize . " ) The love affair between Grant and Saint begins with a dutiful seduction and ends with marriage - - too quickly , too jury-rigged , too required by the plot - - and some of the dialog between them is clumsy , but who cares ? It's not art , but so little on the screen is . It's about as good an entertainment as you're likely to find , better than any of the chase thrillers coming out today . If I see another car chase that ends in an exploding fireball I'll write an angry OpEd piece for the New York Times .
I caught this on its first run in Honolulu after spending two years in a place with no movie theaters . I laughed all the way through it . I was certain that enthusiasm was the result of all the previous deprivation , and some of it was , but the luster hasn't worn off this film on subsequent viewings . It's still funny and at time hilarious . Federico Fabrizi ( Peter Sellers ) is an escaped convict who must find a way to unload a horde of stolen gold from a ship . He gets his friends together , they find a small fishing village suitable for bringing stolen gold ashore , con the aging movie star Tony Powell ( Victor Mature ) and his agent ( Martin Balsam ) into cooperating , claiming they are going to make a " neorealist " movie about unloading stolen gold . Seller's sister , Gina Romantica ( Britt Ekland ) will play opposite Tony Powell . ( Mature : What's neorealism ? " Balsam : " No money . " ) All of the villagers , including the mayor and the police chief , are used in the fake movie to unload the real stolen gold . Everybody gets caught . Sellers takes the rap and escapes again . The end . Now , it isn't surprising that Neal Simon has written a funny screenplay based on his play . He was at the top of his game at the time , and nobody is better at barbed exchanges than Neal Simon at his best . What's amazing about this film is that it is so far removed from Simon's usual bailiwick , the comic contretemps of New York Jews . Here he deals with Italian culture and he's got it just about perfect . The film , directed by Vittorio DeSica , who should know neorealism when he sees it , pokes fun at empty Italian bravado , the almost incestuous obsession with protecting the virtue of one's sister , the allegiance to national laws as a sometime thing , the police as little more than a largely ineffective nuisance , the pretentiousness of Italian films of the period ( Fellini and Antonioni are skewered ) , pompous film critics who see art where there be no art , the vanity of aging actors ( Mature : " I have the pupils of an eighteen-year-old boy ! " ) , the spell cast over ordinary nobodies by film-making , and a host of other targets . It's not just Simon's dialog that makes this outstanding . I can't believe that the comedy would be so effective without DeSica's willingness to puncture the Italian film industry and the culture that embraces it . Example : The fake film has been hastily thrown together and is shown as evidence in court . And , good God , what a horrifying abortion it is . The gang know nothing about movies . We see about five minutes of black and white film . They've used wide angle shots so that human faces turn into bulging gargoyles . In some scenes the camera is on its side . There are utterly pointless shots ( sometimes in slow or accelerated motion ) of people doing nothing of importance , of actors running nowhere ( " no matter how fast you run , you can't run away from yourself " ) , of Peter Seller's behind as he bends over , of rocks , of surf , of nothing . When the film flaps around the take-up reel , a man in the courtroom leaps to his feet in the applauding wildly . He announces that he's a film critic and that Sellers is a " a genius ! A primitive genius ! The best film to come out of Italy in forty years ! I cried ! I cried like a BABY ! " ( The judge throws him out and call him crazy . ) I can't continue this without laughing , but I have to mention one more gag . Sellers real name is Aldo Venucci and in his home he is bragging to his mother and sister that he is ashamed of nothing . To prove it , he throws open the window and shouts " I am Aldo VENUCCI ! " In the street below , two of the gang are shielding their faces and they hiss up a warning , " The po-lice ! The po-lice ! " Sellers instantly dashes from the window and hides in a bathtub . Consistently funny , a long jab at phoniness in its every manifestation . Recommended without qualification if you're in the mood for laughs .
