It's been frequently said that direct-to-video movies are the true contemporary successors to the passionately lauded and beloved scuzzy , low-grade , artistically bankrupt , yet still scurrilously enjoyable scraped - from - the - bottom - of - the - celluloid - gutter drive-in movies of yore . Well , this suitably stinky straight-to-tape slasher atrocity explicitly proves that aforementioned statement to be an honest-to-goodness irrefutable fact . The flimsy , thinly written , just barely there story centers on Billy , a big , dumb , mute , sheltered , socially maladroit retard behemoth whose sole contact with the outside world is a mind-numbing overdose to senselessly exploitative hack ' em up slice'n'dice fright film sludge he's viewed from his bedroom window playing on an adjacent drive-in theater's large screen ( said slimy pics are actually clips from toxically terrible Troma tripe ) . One fateful day Billy escapes from his house and goes to the drive-in to brutally kill folks who include a nasty abusive babysitter , a ramrod security guard , a funky slang-slingin ' Hispanic marijuana dealer , the inevitable horny teen couple doing just what you think in back of a van , and more stereotypically jerky and obnoxious Generation X slacker aholes than you can shake an empty bong at . Boy , does this crudely produced and deplorably awful two-cent dreck ode to laughably chintzy and lousy 70's outdoor picture show crapola possess all the so - spectacularly - stinky - it's - strangely - smokin ' wrong right stuff : fumbling asleep-at-the-switch direction , a paltry script , a mercifully abbreviated 77 minute running time , flat , ugly , eye-straining shot-on-cruddy-digital-video photography , dreadful acting from an amateurishly rank no-name cast , a gratingly repetitious one-note score , ragged editing , a tediously sluggish pace , a few annoying false scares , a smattering of gratuitous nudity and soft-core sex , an ill-advised , would-be meaningful and pertinent subtext about the potentially hazardous effects of watching way too much violent , grossly pandering sleaze-bucket grind-house cinematic fifth , several badly executed murder set pieces , and no finesse , suspense , intelligence or vitality to speak of . In essence , this comparably abominable body count bomb sizes up as a bona-fide latter-day clunker equivalent to the deathlessly dismal ' 76 trash horror classic " Drive-In Massacre . "
If you ever wanted to see a gratingly overwrought Howard Stern all jacked up on speed horribly overplay a demented , cross-dressing , masturbating , mother-hating , whore-slaughtering , high decibel profanity-spewing , corpse-fornicating ( " I love beepin ' ' em when they're dead " ) , smack-shooting , brain-eating , gay-bashing , spastic fit-throwing , hallucinating , totally whacked out of his mind with a toxically murderous mixture of misogynistic rage and psychopathic fury racist lunatic serial killer who went around the bloodthirsty bend because his nasty abusive slut of a mommy liked to shove a beer bottle up his butt as a little boy and now gleefully butchers folks as a crazed nutjob adult when he isn't running around stark naked screaming unprintable vile epithets at the top of his lungs in a hideously redundant , tiresomely strident , completely uninsightful and so aggressively base that it's merely annoying instead of remotely amusing or offensive downright lousy gore opus , then this fetid , obnoxious , sex , rape , nudity and violence-laden worthless chunk of dreadfully puerile splatter porn schlock is just the movie for you . Me ? I'd rather rewatch the outstanding " Henry : Portrait of A Serial Killer " again than sit through this godawful interminable bilge a second time .
A movie theater with a bad history of past gruesome murders reopens . Of course , the bloody killings start anew . Written , directed , shot , scored and edited with an appalling lack of flair and finesse by the singularly talentless Rick Sloane ( who later disgraced celluloid some more with the absolutely atrocious " Hobgoblins " ) , this horrendously ham-fisted attempt at a slasher spoof strikes out something rotten in every conceivable way : the excruciatingly lethargic pacing , the painfully static , grainy cinematography ( there's a stinky surplus of drab master shots featured throughout ) , an annoyingly droning and redundant hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , the flat ( non ) direction , a tediously talky and uneventful script , the groan-inducing sophomoric sense of lowbrow humor , the bloodless murder set pieces , a pitifully unscary killer ( he's just some wrinkled-up old guy in pasty make-up ) , the uniformly obnoxious and unappealing characters , a dissatisfyingly abrupt ending , and lifeless performances from a noticeably uninspired cast all ensure that watching this schlocky swill is about as fun and rewarding as eating rancid raw eels drenched with sour vinegar . This crud totally lacks the necessary crude charm and sleazy vigor required to be enjoyable junk . Instead it's just a bland , plodding and meandering stiff that never catches fire or becomes even remotely amusing in a so-shoddy-it's-smoking sort of way . Only a smidgen of nudity and the delightful presence of the always dependable Mary Woronov as a snarky , sardonic secretary provide a little relief from the overall crumminess of this lousy loser .
You know a film is basically destined to stink worse than dirty old socks when the eternally quality-impaired Fred Olen Ray and the comparably talent-barren Jim Wynorski are listed as executive producers ( worse yet , Ray also co-wrote the " original " story ! ) , longtime hack actor Steve Barkett receives special guest star billing for his quick pre-credits appearance as a doomed astronaut and Martin Sheen's terminally drab , anything but a chip off the ol ' block brother Joe Estevez is the closet thing to a name actor in the entire cast . The horrendously derivative rag-bag premise writes a paltry check that the feeble film itself doesn't even come close to cashing : A huge , fanged , drooling dinosaurian beastie stows away on a spaceship which crash-lands in the dense , verdant , real ferny and swampy Florida bayou . Said bulky ugly creature proceeds to munch on lots of folks , causes several local animals to transform into murderous mutants ( the ferocious killer puppet armadillo is pretty laughable ) and even makes similarly infected humans metamorphosize into your standard blank-eyed , pasty-faced lethal zomboid ghouls . Steve Latshaw's flaccid direction fails to inject any sense of style or vigor into Pat Moran's threadbare script , which in turn serves as a horrible catalog of every last error one could possibly find in The Bad Movie Book of Serious Cinematic Sins . Said sins include a numbing surplus of dreary chitchat , painfully stilted dialogue ( among the choice clunky lines are " I like to watch the news sometimes , but Tom he calls it propaganda " and " This boy scout isn't going to help us find anything " ) , too much meandering around the woods in circles filler nonsense , a grave lack of any inspired or interesting individual flourishes , a poky stab at narrative thrust and , perhaps the picture's grossest , most unforgivable mistake of all , an insipid assortment of tiresomely one-note stereotypical characters ( feisty go-getter female reporter , pompous fat jerk scientist , arrogant macho dude trial guide , meek , skinny nerdy brainiac , shady , double-tongued corporate head and so on ) . The uniformly flat acting , Maxwell J . Beck's primitive cinematography ( the laborious fade-outs and clumsy creature on the prowl POV shots are especially shoddy ) , cheesy computer morphing f / x , the hokey-looking , pitifully unconvincing monster and Jeffrey Walton's droning , insufferably overwrought score definitely don't help matters any as well . Only some welcome gratuitous nudity ( ravishing brunette Blake Pickett in particular makes for a pleasingly ample eyeful sans shirt ) and a clever Hitchcock-style cameo by Sunshine State B-movie institution William Grefe as a photo on a dresser effectively detract from the otherwise overwhelmingly substantial tedium and ineptitude that's in alarming abundance in this truly wretched dreck .
In my ceaseless obsessive quest to watch the most obscure down'n'dirty exploitation features from all over the world I naturally had to have the rotten luck to stumble across this brain-numbing atrocity . Three ladies escape from a hellish women's penitentiary and go on the lam . They decide to get revenge on the various folks who are responsible for sending them to jail . Sound good ? Well , it definitely ain't . For starters , director Roy Rosenberg and writer Gary Capra , Jr . both fail to deliver the lowdown trashy goods : The girls don't show any skin during the obligatory group shower scene ( we see plenty of bare backs and legs , but no bare breasts or buttocks ! ) , plus there's not even a hint of lesbianism and the standard sexually abusive rapist degenerate guard is notably absent . In addition , the flick abruptly switches gears after the ladies break out and turns into a heavy-handed revenge thriller . Moreover , what little violence we get is depressingly tame stuff ( even the expected catfights are nothing to get excited about ) . Jimmy Yu's surprisingly glossy and impressive cinematography manages to rise above the general ineptitude . Ricky Chan's neatly varied score - - it's a groovy mix of pounding rock , lush orchestral mush , and funky soul - - likewise is quite cool . The film also deserves some faint praise for having the audacity to cast an obvious Asian girl sporting shoe polish on her face and an Afro wig atop her head as the token brassy black babe . But overall this clunker still sizes up as a totally blah and dissatisfying lemon .
1865 : A sadistic Union army commander forces several Confederate soldiers to walk across a minefield , brutally slaughtering the whole luckless lot of ' em in the process . 1985 : A small group of raw Army recruits go into the same backwoods territory where the massacre occurred for basic maneuvers . The motley assortment of scruffy grunts discover the hard way that the eerie land is crawling with vicious , inhospitable , creepily cadaverous skull-faced zombies who don't take kindly to any trespassers on their sacred terrain . The zoms are still alive because a little psychic boy who witnessed the massacre in 1865 refuses to let the poor buggers die . The kid's beautiful , still alive mother ( the strikingly comely Margaret Shendal ) falls for nice guy GI Ray ( hunky Maxwell Caulfield of " Grease 2 " and " The Boys Next Door " fame ) while the other less lucky squad members get stiffed by the shambling undead Civil War ghouls . Although the seemingly can't miss premise - - a genuinely inspired fright film amalgam of " 2000 Maniacs , " " Southern Comfort " and " Night of the Living Dead " - - promises a good , spooky " high concept " horror movie outing , " The Supernaturals " alas qualifies as a humongous letdown due largely to a terribly dry and rudimentary execution . Director Armand Mastroianni , the same guy responsible for the awfully boring slasher turkey " He Knows You're Alone , " crucially fails to build any necessary tension or momentum , thus allowing this dud to tediously slog towards a rather drawn-out , less-than-harrowing conclusion . Caulfield , Nichelle Nichols ( " Star Trek " ' s Lt . Uhura ) , Levar Burton , Bobby Di Cicco , Talia Balsam , and " Bad Ronald " ' s Scott Jacoby all contribute excellent , creditable performances , but not even their considerable acting skills can inject any much-needed vitality into this lifeless , lethargic loser . The nifty , scarcely seen zombie make-up by Mark Shostrom and Kevin Yagher , a typically nice , moody score by the great , grossly under-appreciated B-movie composer Robert O . ( " Mansion of the Doomed , " " Grizzly " ) Ragland , and Peter Collister's stately , proficient cinematography are all up to snuff , but sound technical credits can't compensate for this snoozer's unbearably dormant , extremely slow and soporific pacing , conspicuously meager two-cent production values , and a hopelessly muddled , confusing story that isn't unraveled in a clear , compelling manner . Co-written and co-produced by longtime hack horror filmmaker Joel Soisson , this stupendously lackluster Sandy Howard production proves to be as successful at evoking chills and involving the viewer as General Custer was at besting the Indians at the Battle of Little Big Horn .
Amiable federal investigator Steve Kady ( a fine and engaging performance by Jeremy Sisto ) goes to the peaceful remote rural hamlet of Rockwell Falls to take a consensus of the place's population . When Kady stumbles across the alarming fact that the population has remained at 436 for over a hundred years , he discovers that the friendly , yet undeniably strange townspeople are harboring a very evil and disturbing big secret . Director Michelle Maxwell MacLaren , working from a clever and intriguing script by Michael Kingston , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace and does a nice job of maintaining an eerily ambiguous atmosphere for the first two thirds of the movie . Moreover , MacLaren thankfully eschews cheap gore and flashy special effects in favor of putting a welcome and refreshing marked emphasis on the plot and the characters . Sisto excels in the lead ; he receives excellent support from rock singer Fred Durst as laid-back , likable Deputy Bobby Caine , the lovely Charlotte Sullivan as the feisty , enticing Courtney Lovett , Peter Outerbridge as the mean Deputy Christian Hecker , R . H . Thompson as the austere Sheriff Colcutt , David Fox as the sinister Dr . Harold James Greaver , and Frank Adamson as the folksy Mayor Grateman . Both Thomas Burstyn's crisp , sunny cinematography and Glenn Buhr's spooky'n'shuddery score are up to speed . The supremely chilling downbeat ending packs a real jolting punch , too . Offbeat , compelling and well worth watching .
A trio of naive , but eager young Midwestern women go to California to teach summer school classes at Regency High School . Perky , willful Candice ( " Hollywood Boulevard , " " Chatterbox ! " ) Rialson starts up and coaches an all-female football team ; she also becomes romantically involved with gawky , but amicable fellow student teacher Christopher Barrett . Stuffy Bible banging chemistry teacher Pat ( " T . N . T . Jackson " ) Anderson manages to loosen up after she falls hard for surly juvenile delinquent Will Carney . Pert , liberated photography instructor Rhonda Leigh ( " Cover Girl Models " ) Hopkins has sex with both a two-faced male chauvinist jerk and a more decent , understanding guy . This thoroughly inane , amiable , episodic and animated New World Pictures comedic teen sexploitation item sizes up as a hugely enjoyable outing : writer / director Barbara ( " Humanoids from the Deep " ) Peeters keeps the pace quite zippy and the tone suitably lighthearted throughout , the ceaseless barrage of jokes about breasts , buttocks , fat guys , uptight high school authority figures , sex ( of course ) , dirty little old lady peeping toms , dorky middle-aged dudes on the make , and gross macho bozos are very crude , but still pretty funny , the expected romantic interludes are surprisingly tasteful and erotic , the Los Angeles strip club footage is authentically tacky , the sappy bleeding heart " let's give the kids a chance " posturing never becomes too icky-cute , the feminist subtext is slight , yet sincere , there's a reasonably decent automobile chase and a nice subplot about a stolen car ring , and the climactic women only football game manages to be really amusing , if nothing too spectacular . Moreover , the always dependable Dick Miller cuts loose with a riotously hammy performance as a crooked , sexist , vulgar macho swine football coach , the three female leads are sexy , lively and appealing , Eric ( " The Hills Have Eyes " ) Saarinen's handsome , agile cinematography provides lots of lovely , gorgeously lit visuals , and J . J . Jackson's bouncy , ebullient score will plant a mile-wide smile on your face that you won't take off for a week . Now , what more could you possibly want from a blissfully insubstantial , but infectiously effervescent and entertaining goofball time-waster ?
This immensely entertaining vintage 60's American International Pictures horror anthology treat based on a trio of delectably macabre Edgar Allan Poe short stories features Vincent Price in peak form in all three episodes . First and most spooky yarn , " Morella " - Young Lenora ( the lovely Maggie Pierce ) visits her estranged alcoholic father Locke ( a superbly anguished Price ) in his crumbling mansion and attempts to reconcile with him , which in turn incurs the deadly wrath of the vengeful spirit of her long deceased mother Morella ( the stunning Leona Gage ) . Second and funniest anecdote , " The Black Cat " - Peter Lorre gives a hilarious , spirited performance as wretched drunkard Montresor , a pathetic sot who befriends pompous wine expert Fortunato ( a deliciously droll Price ) . When Montresor discovers that Fortunato and his fetching , neglected wife Annabel ( the delightful Joyce Jameson ) are having an adulterous affair , he entombs them both alive behind a wall in his cellar . Third and creepiest segment , " The Case of M . Valdemar " - Evil mesmerist Carmichael ( a wonderfully wicked Basil Rathbone ) keeps dying millionaire Valdemar ( you-know-who again , excellent as ever ) alive in a tormented unconscious state , much to the dismay of both Valdemar's wife Helene ( the ravishing Debra Paget ) and loyal physician Dr . James ( the solid David Frankham ) . Roger Corman's typically tight and proficient direction , working from a smart and witty script by Richard Matheson , expertly maintains a brisk pace throughout , deftly creates a marvelously eerie brooding gloom-doom atmosphere ( the first and last anecdotes are particularly moody and effective , while the middle one offers plenty of uproarious pitch-black gallows humor ) , and coaxes fine acting from a tip-top cast . Lex Baxter's splendidly shivery'n'shuddery score and Floyd Crosby's crisp , handsome widescreen cinematography are likewise on the money outstanding . Good , ghoulish fun .
Popular jazz singer Liz Wetherby ( played by real-life singer and 70's TV game show perennial Leslie Uggams ) gets into big trouble when her fancy expensive breaks down in the middle of nowhere in the Deep South . Poor Liz runs afoul of both slimy , crazed , talentless wannabe Elvis gigolo Eddie Collins ( deliciously overplayed with scuzzy aplomb by producer Michael Christian ) and Bertha ( a typically fat and juicy slice of prime histrionic ham by the one and only Shelley Winters ) , a faded former burlesque performer turned haggard and pathetic owner of a seedy lodge . Eddie sees Liz as his meal ticket out of the squalid hick hamlet where he's rotting away with the needy and neurotic Bertha . Eddie tries to force Liz to marry him , which begets tragic and disastrous consequences for everyone concerned . Director Richard Robinson uses several bizarre flourishes to relate the compellingly sordid and twisted story : he makes striking use of stunningly stylized slow motion for the more violent moments ( think Sam Peckinpah on Quaaludes ) and tastefully intercuts a brutal rape with footage of two mangy old coon dogs mating . David Worth's vivid , luridly picturesque cinematography and Grant Boatwright's wonky hillbilly bluegrass score add considerably to the pervasively scroungy atmosphere . The incredible cast includes Ted Cassidy ( Lurch on " The Adams Family " ) as a browbeaten disfigured handyman , a hilarious Slim Pickens as a perverted degenerate good ol ' boy sheriff , and Dub Taylor as an unhinged judge . The over-the-top gory bloodbath conclusion further enhances the overall tasty cheesiness of this choice rancid chunk of 70's Southern-fried drive-in exploitation swill .
Cocky and immature young Fong Su Yi ( nicely played by the handsome and likable Fei Meng ) accidentally kills a martial arts student in a fight . The two evil instructors of the martial arts school in turn murder Fong Su Yi's father . After undergoing strenuous and extensive training under the hard and exacting tutelage of his formidable mother ( an excellent performance by a fine actress who oddly receives no billing ) , Fong Su Yi vows to get his revenge . But getting revenge proves to be easier said than done . Director Chai Yang-Min relates the gripping story at a constant brisk pace , keeps the tone serious throughout , and stages the copious martial arts fights with considerable skill and panache . The unusually sound cinematography makes nifty use of swift pans and occasional graceful slow motion . The roaring dramatic score likewise does the trick . The martial arts fight set pieces are every bit as bloody , violent and exciting as they ought to be . Moreover , this film further benefits from solid acting from a capable cast : Meng is an engaging lead , Yasuaki Kurata and Wang Ching are appropriately hateful as the nasty main villains , and the adorable Lam Lam Lee lends charming support as sweet and fetching love interest Siu Ping . The flavorsome period setting and gorgeous countryside scenery are also up to speed . An enjoyable romp .
A trio of vicious criminals - - charming , but ruthless leader Aldo ( Ray Lovelock in fine wicked form ) , savage Walter ( essayed with frightening intensity by Flavio Andreni ) , and ferocious Neanderthalic brute Nino ( a positively simian portrayal by Stefano Cedrati ) - - pull off a bank heist and seek refuge in an isolated seaside villa when their getaway car breaks down . The loathsome threesome terrorize a quintet of teenage Catholic schoolgirls and Sister Cristina ( superbly played by Florinda Bolkan ) , the tough and resolute nun who's in charge of the girls . Naturally , the hoods have their foul way with several of the girls until Sister Cristina renounces her vows and exacts a harsh vengeance on the creeps . Director Franco Prosperi milks plenty of gut-wrenching tension from the grim and compelling story . Said story of course becomes more progressively mean and unpleasant as it unfolds , complete with rape , murder , humiliation , and the inevitable exciting last reel turn the tables revenge by the ladies on their vile and hateful tormentors . The startling outbursts of raw , ugly and strikingly stylized violence pack a really strong punch . This film further benefits from uniformly sound and credible acting from a capable cast : Lovelock excels as the deceptively laid-back and amiable Aldo ( Lovelock also sings the cool hard-rocking theme song ! ) , Andreni and Cedrati are genuinely repulsive and unappealing as a pair of extremely base and cruel degenerates , Bolkan does well as Sister Cristina , and Sherry Buchanan , Laura Tanziani , Laura Trotter , Karine Velier , and Annalisa Pesce are all quite fetching and believable as the scared and vulnerable schoolgirls . Roberto Pregadio's funky , syncopated score and Cristiano Pogany's sparkling widescreen cinematography are both up to snuff . A satisfying serving of in-your-face rough and unflinching celluloid sadism .
Sweet and naive , yet sassy and sexy Las Vegas casino lounge singer Bobbie Warren ( the adorably diminutive and dynamic Pia Zadora ) gets incarcerated at a brutal women's penitentiary after refusing to testify in court against her mobster boyfriend . The little songbird quickly changes her tune after she's assaulted in the shower by several vicious predatory lesbians . Bobbie is put in the protective custody of cranky senior cop Lt . Thurston ( a marvelously sardonic Telly Savalas ) and his cute eager beaver younger partner Clint Morgan ( an engaging performance by Desi Arnaz Jr . ) . Meanwhile , two assassins try to bump Bobbie off . Directed with considerable go-for-it flair by Matt ( " The Witch Who Came from the Sea " ) Cimber ( who also plays one of the hit-men ) , with a sprightly , jazzy score by Arthur B . Rubenstein , several thrilling action scenes ( a wild stunt involving a car racing through the lobby of a packed casino is the definite exciting highlight ) , garish , gleaming , lively cinematography by Eddy van der Emden , a snappy pace that rarely lets up , and enthusiastic acting from a bang-up cast , " Fake-Out " really delivers the infectiously silly and entertaining goods . Popping up in nifty supporting parts are Larry Storch as an obnoxiously slick sleazeball talent agent , George " Buck " Flower as an undercover policeman posing as a drunken cowboy gambler , and co-screenwriter John Goff in a funny bit as a gay man who hits on Savalas . Best of all , Pia Zadora positively lights up the screen with her endearingly perky and radiant presence : Whether she's heartily belting out a catchy song on stage during the opening credits or leading the tough lady prison inmates in a hilariously bawdy Jane Fonda-style work-out aerobic exercise session , the divine Ms . Z brings a charm , energy and bubbly good nature to her juicy starring role that's an absolute joy to watch .
For sublimely silly Sasquatch Saturday morning live action entertainment , there's only one show to see . Yep , it's this supremely screwy 70's TV series from Sid and Marty Krofft , those undisputed kings of such Me Decade kidvid insanity as " Land of the Lost " and " Sigmund and the Sea Monsters . " Eight years ago Bigfoot ( brawny thespian Ray Young ; the evil acidhead who freaks out in the disco in Jeff Lieberman's terrific " Blue Sunshine " ) discovered a lost male child in the Great Northwest wilderness of Southern California ( ! ) and raised the tyke to be a Tarzan-like lad called Wildboy ( Joseph Butcher , your basic vapid blonde Malibu surfer type ) . With his unruly mass of all-body hair and bulky , beefy build , Bigfoot resembles one of three things : 1 ) Chewbacca's brother , 2 ) a really hairy hippie , or 3 ) Greg Allman on a very bad day . Furthermore , Bigfoot speaks in barely coherent grunt'n'grumble tones , delivering a message about nature and the environment at the end of every show . He tosses rinky-dink paper mache boulders as if they were rinky-dink paper mache boulders . He survives avalanches without a scratch . And he runs and leaps in hilariously drawn-out slow motion ala Lee Majors in " The Six Million Dollar Man " while groovy-chillin ' music and funky synthesized sound effects accompany his every move . Naturally , Bigfoot and Wildboy have many exciting misadventures : they foil plutonium thieves , battle a mummy , encounter alien beings , and face off with a red-skinned " Incredible Hulk " - style monster ( played by Carel Struycken , who later become a regular on " Twin Peaks " and portrayed Lurch in the " Adams Family " films ) . Wildboy frequently gets captured by baddies and Bigfoot has to save his hapless'n'helpless wimpy hide time and time again . Sure , this show is undeniably a dippy hunk of total cheese , but it's the program's very blatant and abundant cheesiness which makes it a topflight tacky treasure .
Earnest , but rather inept treasury agent James Franciscus enlists the aid of an elderly erstwhile con man turned wise , amiable religious kook decent cat ( a delightfully droll Fred Astaire , who played a similar part in " The Towering Inferno " ) and the old dude's special collection of versatile police trained Dobermans so he can collar a brutish , browbeating , money-grubbing racketeer ( a robust , blustery turn by veteran Catskills comic Jack Carter ) and his gang of nasty goons . Ably directed by Byron Ross Chudnow , this honey sizes up as a really solid and on the mark semi-facetious crime caper yarn that's given an additional lift out of the rut by future big deal mainstream film composer Alan ( " Back to the Future , " " Predator " ) Silvestri's funky , with-it get-down groovy soul score , clear , expert cinematography by frequent Monte Hellman movie lenser Gregory ( " Ride in the Whirlwind , " " The Shooting " ) Sandor , the gorgeous Barbara Eden in scanty , sexy , revealing apparel ( you even get to see Barbara's navel ! ) , a winningly loopy sense of humor ( Fred calls his dobies his " family " ) , the always great Billy Barty as a circus midget , lots of first-rate stirring scenes of the Dobermans in strenuous gangster-thwarting action , and adroit occasional use of wipes , slow motion , hazy soft focus , and other such snazzy 70's cutting edge action film stylistic flourishes . Refreshingly straightforward and bereft of any pretense , this feature overall deserves a golden milkbone .
A vicious serial killer terrorizes the city by brutally strangling attractive young women . Weary , cynical Detective Grant Sutherland ( a fine performance by Kent Rulon ) enlists the aid of blind , fragile psychic Maggie Russo ( a strong and touching portrayal by the lovely Diane Grotke ) in order to capture the psycho . Writer / director Richard Brody relates the compelling story at a steady pace , effectively builds plenty of gut-wrenching tension , maintains a properly grim'n'gritty tone throughout , and stages the startling outbursts of raw , ugly violence with considerable skill . Moreover , the excellent acting by the tip-top cast rates as another substantial asset : Rulon and Grotke display a very nice and moving chemistry in the leads ( the love story between their lonely characters is surprisingly poignant and their sole sex scene is genuinely erotic ) , with bang-up supporting turns by James Doohan ( Scotty on " Star Trek " ) as crusty retired cop Barney Fredericks , Isabel Parlett as Grant's spunky , ill-fated partner Detective Lucy Bernard , and Ann Parker as quirky costume store owner Miss Konkle . Jonathan Burkhart's polished cinematography offers several smooth tracking shots and a few impressive overhead camera shots . David Bruce Goldberg's shivery , ominous score hits the shuddery spot . The shockingly bleak surprise ending packs one hell of a wicked wallop . A real sleeper .
This nifty 63 minute documentary offers an interesting and illuminating portrait of " Stone , " a funky little independent Australian biker picture that was a huge hit in its day back in 1974 and has since become an enduring cult classic . Among the things we learn is that " Stone " star / co-writer / director / producer Sandy Harbutt was a really down-to-earth and approachable guy on the set of the film ( alas , Harbutt never made another feature in the wake of " Stone " ' s monumental success ) , bikers who are Vietnam war veterans find the depiction of their lifestyle in the movie to be honest and accurate , a real-life biker gang played the rival club the Black Hawks ( these guys were paid with beer for their contribution to the flick ! ) , lead actor Ken Shorter was an ex-cop who designed his own clothes , 400 bikers showed up to participate as extras in the famous highway funeral procession sequence , actor Vincent Gil did double duty as a grip , the movie received largely poor reviews from critics , but still proved to be a massive box office smash , a biker club called the Stone Social Club was formed in tribute to the film , and Harbutt and several other " Stone " folks stormed the Cannes Film Festival in 1980 in order to secure international distribution for the picture . Of course , such " Stone " cast and crew members as Hugh Keays-Byrne , Rebecca Gilling , editor Ian Barry , Roger Ward , Helen Morse , cinematographer Graham Lind , and Bindi Williams are all interviewed as well . Essential viewing for all you hardcore " Stone " aficionados out there .
1968 , Saigon : An elite group of army soldiers leave their Vietnamese political officer guide Nguyen ( well played by Park Jong Soo ) behind after they get ambushed by the Vietcong . Ten years later the embittered Nguyen tracks down and kills the various squad members . Among the targets of Nguyen's lethal wrath are tough take-charge former leader Kip Moore ( an excellent performance by Perry King ) and his rowdy , rugged best pal Buddy Grant ( a typically fine and robust Don Stroud ) . Capably directed in a mean'n'lean straightforward style by William Fruet , with polished cinematography by Rene Verzier , a steady , snappy pace , several rousing action scenes ( a protracted martial arts fight between Buddy and Nguyen rates as the definite stirring highlight ) , a driving , pounding , throbbing hard-rock score by FM , gorgeous Canadian locations ( the Niagara Falls looks absolutely breathtaking ) , engaging main characters , a harrowing climactic cat and mouse chase on the streets of a crowded city , and nice supporting turns by Tisa Farrow as Kip's concerned girlfriend Kate Barchel , George Kennedy as no-nonsense detective Anthony Fusqua , and Tony Sheer as Fusqua's jerky partner Frank Malone , this bang-up little sleeper overall makes the grade as a solid and satisfying revenge action winner .
Fiery Antiope ( well played with admirable gusto by gorgeous blonde stunner Alena Johnston ) becomes queen of a mighty tribe of formidable Amazon women and enforces a strict code to keep them strong . Bitter rival Oreitheia ( a suitably fierce portrayal by lovely brunette Sabine Sun ) tries to have Antiope dethroned . Further complications ensue when Antiope has to mate with charming and noble Greek king Theseus ( an engaging performance by Angelo Infanti ) and winds up falling in love with him . Director Terence Young relates this wild and melodramatic tale of savage conflict and inflammatory passions at a swift pace , stages the exciting battle sequences with considerable aplomb , and loads this flick with a pleasing plenitude of tasty bare distaff skin ( the definite highlight occurs when Antiope and Oreitheia participate in a ferocious anything-goes catfight clad solely in their birthday suits ! ) . Moreover , we also get a few vigorous rough'n'ready swordfights , a memorably steamy wrestling match between two delectable half-nude honeys , and even a little lesbianism to further spice up the already delicious cinematic brew . Of course , having such luscious ladies as Helga Line , Rosanna Yanni , Malisa Longo , and Luciana Paluzzi in sizable supporting roles doesn't hurt matters in the least . The expansive cinematography by Aldo Tonti and Alejandro Ulloa gives the picture an impressively massive sense of scope . Riz Ortolani's full-bore robust'n'rousing orchestral score likewise hits the stirring spot . A really fun flick .
This very thorough and engrossing featurette covers the making of the spooky low-budget indie horror film " Room 6 . " The people who are interviewed are co-writer / co-producer Mark A . Altman , actress Ellie Cornell , producer Mark Gottwald , special effects make-up artist Robert Hall , director / co-writer Michael Hurst , co-producer Chuck Speed , cinematographer Raymond Stella , and co-producer / stunt coordinator Danny Wayne . Hurst reveals that the story for the movie was inspired by a real-life stay at a hospital for an injury ( the inherent creepiness of hospitals is talked about in some length as well ) . The opening car crash was actually staged two times . Hall notes that he tried to come up with an original look for the demons . Wayne dwells on the exacting nature of the stunt set pieces and the arduous work that wire gags entail . Everyone praises Christine Taylor for the vulnerability she brings to the role of the troubled Amy ( Taylor was actually five months pregnant when she did the picture ! ) and confesses they were all excited to work with actor / stuntman Kane Hodder . Cornell admits that she had fun playing the change-of-pace part of scrappy whitetrash mom Sarah Norman . Stella used fluorescent lights for the practical locations . The burn victim zombies were based on photos of the hideous genuine article . Overall , it's an interesting and illuminating documentary that's well worth seeing for fans of the film .
A motley group of people are forced to seek shelter at a remote inn run by the snooty , sarcastic , but suave Amos Bradford ( a perfectly unctuous George Zucco ) because of a raging thunderstorm that has flooded out the bridge and the roads alike . These eclectic individuals include a vengeful escaped convict whom Bradford put in jail , a meek geeky bank teller who's trying to embezzle $50 , 000 bucks , a mean , ruthless mobster who also wants to get his grubby paws on the hot loot , a young couple who are planning to get married , and the huffy , overbearing , disapproving father of the bride-to-be . Naturally , a vicious killer starts bumping folks off . Efficiently directed in a briskly straightforward and economical no-frills manner by Sam Newfield , with an endearingly hokey script by Fred Myton , plenty of sharply sardonic dialogue , stark , gritty black and white photography by Robert Cline , a booming , melodramatic score by Charles Dunworth , and game acting from a solid cast ( Glenn Strange in particular contributes an amiable performance as Bradford's clumsy , cowardly , oafish assistant Andy while Charlie Middleton registers strongly as a jerky ramrod sheriff ) , this wittily enjoyable Grade B mystery thriller potboiler delivers a reasonable amount of cheap thrills . A fun little quickie .
An evil witch gets burned at the stake , but vows to return and get her revenge prior to being torched . A hundred years later a family - - architect father Fernando ( Julio Aleman ) , naggy pregnant wife Lorena ( attractive Nuria Bages ) , daughter Gaby ( Gianella Hassle Kus ) , twin sons Pedrito ( Ernesto East ) and Jaimito ( Carlos East , Jr . ) , sweet niece Paulina ( the fetching Gabriela Hassle ) , and Paulina's affable occult enthusiast boyfriend Julio ( an engaging performance by Pedro Fernandez ) - - decide to vacation at a summer home located in the same immediate countryside area where the witch was killed . Trouble ensues when Gaby finds a doll possessed by the lethal spirit of the malevolent witch . Director Rene Cardona III eschews graphic gore in favor of creating and sustaining a creepy ooga-booga atmosphere that becomes more progressively eerie and frightening as the story unfolds . Said uncanny mood culminates in an especially intense and harrowing last third . Moreover , the capable acting from a uniformly solid cast , Luis Medina's polished cinematography , the likable characters , the exciting fiery conclusion , Eugenio Castillo's shivery , ominous score , plenty of unsettling visuals ( the bleeding tree and walls are truly scary and unnerving while the shots of vile rotting food covered with bugs , rats and snakes are just plain gross ) , the constant pace , and the crude , yet effective special effects further enhance the overall sound quality of this nifty little horror picture .
This sublimely sleazy and wonderfully warped jaw-dropper rates highly as the greatest cheeseball low-budget indie fright flick ever made about a grotesquely misshapen murderous mutant fetus . In fact , I'm pretty sure this deliciously dreadful and disgusting doozy might very well be the only horror movie thus far ever made about a grotesquely misshapen murderous mutant fetus . The extremely tasteless plot centers on a young couple who go to a scuzzy bordello on the outskirts of town so they can get an illegal abortion ( the film takes place in the early 70's prior to the famous Roe Vs . Wade verdict ) . The aborted fetus gets rudely disposed of by being flushed down the toilet ( yes , you read that correctly ) . The poor little bugger winds up in the filthy sewer and mutates into a huge , lethal , clawed , fanged , goofy-looking humanoid beast after being exposed to toxic waste . The foul ferocious subhuman fiend proceeds to go back to the squalid brothel and terrorize the occupants inside , which include the fat Southern madame , various skeevy prostitutes and their scummy customers , and even its own scared parents . Man , does this gloriously ghastly marvel possess all the so - thoroughly - wrong - they're - paradoxically - right schlocky stuff to qualify as a real four-star stinkeroonie . For starters , there's the hilariously horrendous acting from a rank amateur no-name cast . The ratty'n'ragged cinematography and annoyingly redundant droning synthesizer score are likewise suitably sub-par . The wonderfully wretched dialogue is absolutely priceless . The fact that the uproariously inane story is treated with utmost seriousness by the filmmakers only makes matters that much more enjoyably absurd and abominable ( the filmmakers have the gall to claim said story is based on an actual real-life event ! ) . The murderous mutant monster itself rates as one of the single most laughably ludicrous man-in-a-rubber-suit creatures to ever scamper its way across the screen ( the creature strangles and decapitates its victims with its lethal prehensile umbilical cord ! ) . Moreover , this fabulously fetid flick delivers a handy helping of grotty gore and a nice smattering of gratuitous nudity . The Elite Entertainment DVD for this terrifically tacky , trashy and twisted cinematic treasure offers a grainy , but acceptable widescreen ( ! ) presentation with the trailer as the sole extra .
This uproariously atrocious Al Adamson $1 . 50 sci-fi / horror patch-up job rates highly as one of Al's single most sublimely stinky pictures to ever disgrace celluloid . This beautifully bad and berserk baby boasts John Carradine at his all-time crankiest , Brother Theodore's gut-busting wheezing histrionic opening narration , poorly tinted black and white giant creature footage from the moldy oldie items " One Million Years B . C . " and " Unknown Island , " cheap cardboard spaceship sets , a quick cameo by Adamson as a vampire with wicked sideburns , a particularly ridiculous heavy-breathing sex scene , a pretty sorry trash cinema ensemble cast that includes Vicki Volante , Jennifer Bishop and Robert Dix , chintzy cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond , such hysterically goofy monsters as hairy cave-dwelling bat demons , swamp-residing lobster men , snake men , and two warring cavemen tribes , and a stupendously silly plot concerning a fearless team of astronauts traveling to a hostile alien planet so they can thwart a severe extraterrestrial vampire plague that's ravaging Earth ! This isn't by any stretch of the imagination a good movie , but it is nonetheless an often unintentionally amusing and hence hugely enjoyable Grace Z low-budget crap camp classic .
Successful and respected black doctor Kenneth Kincade ( the hopelessly wooden J . Walter Smith , who comes across like a poor man's William Marshall ) and his family move into an affluent California suburb populated by grotesquely hateful and intolerant evil snobby white jerks . Said jerks not only protest in front of the Kincade's house and leave a coffin on the front lawn , but also string up the family's pet cat after they brutally butcher the poor kitty . Dr . Kincade enlists the aid of bold and fearsome black militant Abar ( bald , charismatic Tobar Mayo ) and his followers to protect his family . After his son gets killed by the vile racists , Dr . Kincade injects Abar with an experimental serum that makes him indestructible and gives him special psychic powers . Sporting an immaculate blue suit and red shirt , Abar decides to clean up the streets : Among the good deeds he performs are turning wine into milk , making a purse snatcher return his stolen item to its rightful owner , forcing a bunch of graffiti artists to repaint a wall they just defaced , and , best of all , unleashing a hurricane and plague of rats on the wholly deserving Caucasian villains . Boy , is this one fabulously freaky and stunningly clunky micro-budget blaxploitation oddity : Frank Packard's plodding ( mis ) direction , James Smalley's talky , yet genuinely offbeat and unpredictable script , the authentically grimy inner city Los Angeles locations , the endearingly amateurish acting by a no-name cast ( Roxie Young as Ms . Kincade cops the grand booby prize ; check out her big crack-up scene after discovering the mangled body of her murdered son ) , Ron Garcia's rough , static cinematography , the infrequent ineptly staged action scenes , the funky 70's TV cop show-style score , and the totally unexpected from out in left field uplifting conclusion all make this deliciously loopy doozy one of the single most gloriously weird and original jaw-droppers produced during the 70's blaxploitation craze . Must be seen to be ( dis ) believed .
New Orleans , 1942 : Vicious , abusive hoodlum J . D . Walker ( a sneering , splendidly nasty turn by David McNight ) slices a woman's throat with a switchblade , then gets promptly shot dead for committing the brutal , heinous misdeed . Cut to New Orleans in 1976 : Sweet , likable , struggling law student Ike ( frequent second banana co-star actor Glynn Turman , giving a fine , engaging performance in a rare substantial lead part ) is possessed by J . D . ' s malevolent , vindictive spirit , which transforms Ike from a harmless , mild-mannered college kid into a vile , lethal , womanizing , straight razor-toting cad who exacts a terrible revenge upon all those individuals responsible for J . D . ' s untimely demise . One of the best , most frightening and effective entries in the short-lived 70's blaxploitation horror craze ( prime examples of this nifty sub-genre include both " Blacula " movies , " Abby , " and " Sugar Hill " ) , " J . D . ' s Revenge " emphasizes mood over violence , with seasoned B-picture veteran Arthur ( " Bonnie's Kids , " " Bucktown " ) Marks ' typically sturdy , stylish , self-assured direction and Jaison Starkes ' craftily plotted script deftly milking the creepy , mysterious , unsettling Southern Gothic-style ambiance for all its worth . Said scary gloom-doom tone , further reinforced by a vivid evocation of that uniquely lazy , luscious and exotic Big Easy atmosphere and Marks ' ever dark sense of humor , insinuates itself upon the viewer in a low-key , yet forceful manner . The always great Louis Gossett , Jr . offers a dazzling , dynamic portrayal of Elijah Bliss , a flashy , grand-standing , two-faced preacherman with something to hide . The lovely Joan Pringle is strong and sympathetic as Ike's concerned girlfriend Christella . Harry May's gorgeous , polished cinematography gives the film a sumptuous professional sheen which totally bellies the low budget . The eerie , groovy , understated score by Robert Prince ( who also co-wrote the forgettable ending credits theme song " I'll Never Let You Go " ) is likewise on the money fine . Reportedly one of Samuel Jackson's longtime favorite movies , this baby rates as a real nice one all around . And Turman does wonders in a touch , demanding part ; ironically , Turman was ultimately dissatisfied with how the film turned out .
A wacky , sprightly and thoroughly enjoyable pre - " Repo Man " car repossession nab ' em , chase ' em and crash ' em comic caper yarn that's set in ritzy Beverly Hills and infused with a distinctly easy'n'breezy sense of extremely 70's nutty irreverent humor . Darren McGavin , as chronically crusty , frazzled , excitable , irascible and delightful as ever , stars as Michael Nolan , a square , sadsack , perpetually luckless straight-arrow middle-aged loser who's jobless , penniless and down on his luck . Nolan stumbles his way into employment working as a repo man for a loopy carjacker outfit run by the bawdy , lusty , sharp-tongued Flo ( Sylvia Miles in top-rate raunchy form ) . Nolan befriends and learns the ropes from sassy , spunky , smart-mouthed , fiercely self-reliant 16-year-old tomboy " Larry " ( saucily played by the Joe Fosterish Denise Nickerson ; the gum-chewing Violet in " Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory " ) . Complications ensue when Nolan falls for kooky , vampy , vivacious brunette spitfire Gloria ( a nicely flaky turn by the stunningly elegant and voluptuous Joan Collins ) , a hot mama in a smoking silver Trans Am that Larry is itching to boost . Directed with invigorating panache by Don Weis , further galvanized by John Beal's funky , syncopated , lowdown groovy disco score , a pleasingly zany tone , several rousing and capably executed car stunts , W . Lyle Richardson's tart script , a zippy pace , zingy slang-loaded dialogue ( " Let's pop that hop " ) , Don Birnkrant's whiplash-inducing cinematography , a seriously cool theme song , and the expected metal-mangling vehicular carnage , " Zero to Sixty " bristles with lots of souped-up brio and vitality , making a swift 96 minutes rip along at a dizzyingly breakneck clip . It's a testament to McGavin's remarkable talent that he effortlessly manages to create a winningly hapless and harried character amid all the frantic nonstop tomfoolery . Moreover , McGavin's terrific star performance receives able support from Miles , Collins , Nickerson , the Hudson Brothers as a trio of super-slick wiseguy hipsters , Lorraine Gary ( Roy Scheider's wife in the " Jaws " movies ) as a perky late-night diner waitress , and David Huddleston as a cantankerous millionaire . Ebullient , cheeky and buoyed by an infectiously carefree playfulness , this immensely lively little number roars across the screen in a most entertainingly goofy and dynamic manner .
Brilliant , but eccentric scientist Dr . John Alcore ( the always marvelous Christopher Plummer ) hires nice guy virus expert and pharmaceutical genius Owen Urban ( an engaging portrayal by Andrew Stevens ) to help him with his groundbreaking experiments on genetic engineering and life extension at his clinic the Life Research Foundation . Owen discovers to his shock and dismay that Alcore and his associates have inadvertently become infected with a lethal new virus that has extremely dangerous side effects : folks with the bizarre blood disease have increased strength , an aversion to sunlight , and an insatiable appetite for human blood . In other words , they are basically vampires . Matters are further complicated when perky volunteer subject Paula ( a fearlessly wild and crazed turn by the lovely Heather Thomas ) becomes infected and goes murderously around the bend . Ably directed with tremendous style and verve by David Blyth , with a fresh , witty and intelligent script by Alan Moyle which offers a clever , original and even pretty plausible " Coma " - style medical thriller take on the concept of vampirism , slick cinematography by Ludek Bogner , a snappy pace , a spooky , stirring synthesizer score by Jim Manzie , plenty of wickedly funny dialogue ( " Yes , I'm a blood user , but I adore garlic and hate sleeping in coffins " ) , and an appropriately creepy and sinister tone , " Red Blooded American Girl " deserves praise for doing something refreshingly different and unconventional with your standard vampire premise . The cast in particular warrant kudos for their uniformly excellent acting ; Kim Coates makes an especially strong impression as Alcore's pathetic , predatory jerk of an obnoxious assistant and ravishing French redhead hottie supreme Lydie Denier has a memorably sexy'n'sultry cameo as a young woman Dennis has his wicked way with after making love to her first . There are some cool kinky touches featured throughout as well , such as Dennis masturbating in a hot tub with a bag of blood and Paula gleefully caressing herself with a steak knife . Offbeat , intriguing and well worth a look .
The 1930's . Spoiled and snotty wealthy heiress Barbara Blandish ( superbly played to prissy perfection by Kim Darby ) gets abducted by a vicious family of depraved and dangerous outlaws . Complications ensue when the infantile , yet lethal and volatile Slim Grissom ( a remarkable performance by Scott Wilson ) falls for Barbara . Barbara soon realizes that she will have to do whatever it takes to stay alive . Director Robert Aldrich , working from a tough and biting script by Leon Griffiths , expertly maintains a tense and sordid atmosphere throughout , offers a vivid , grimy and credible evocation of the bleak and desperate Depression era , stages the sporadic shoot-outs and startling outbursts of raw , bloody violence with his customary flair , and further spices things up with a wickedly funny sense of pitch-black humor . Moreover , Aldrich and Griffiths score bonus points for their admirable refusal to either sanitize or romanticize the clan of ferocious and frightening criminals in any way ; these folks are truly mean , scary and even downright grotesque . The thespians who portray this ghastly bunch all do sterling work : Tony Musante as smooth heel Eddie Hagan , Irene Dailey as fearsome , venomous matriarch Gladys " Ma " Grissom , Joey Faye as the jolly Woppy , Ralph Waite as the excitable Mace , and Don Keefer as the timid , laid-back Doc . Contributing equally fine supporting turns are Robert Lansing as shrewd , weary private eye Dave Fenner , Connie Stevens as brassy , cynical , dim-witted tramp singer Anna Borg , and Wesley Addy as Barbara's cold , disapproving millionaire father John P . Blandish . Better still , we've also got a strangely touching , albeit off-kilter central love story amid all the stark cruelty and unsparing unpleasantness . Gerald Fried's sprightly , rousing score , a jaunty soundtrack of vintage catchy 30's swing tunes , Joseph F . Biroc's sharp , polished cinematography , and the devastating downbeat ending all further enhance the overall sound quality of this supremely harsh , but still gripping and satisfying crime saga .
Sleazy and bored hubby Larry ( well played by Jimmy Stathis ) ain't too happy with his marriage to his neglected wife Robin ( a fine and touching performance by Clara Perryman ) . Larry decides to rent a creepy black room in a swanky Hollywood Hills mansion from the strange Jason ( muscular Stephen Knight ) and his equally odd , but alluring sister Bridget ( the strikingly lovely and exotic Cassandra Gaviola ) in order to put some much-needed pizazz back into his dreary love life . Larry uses the room to have sex with young ladies . Unbeknownst to Larry , Jason in turn drains the young women of their blood and shoots up their precious life fluid with a needle . Ably directed by Elly Kenner and Norman Thaddeus Vane ( the latter also wrote and directed the strictly so-so " Frightmare " ) , with solid acting from the entire cast ( Linnea Quigley has a nifty small role as a near victim babysitter towards the end of the movie ) , a compellingly bizarre and twisted story , a genuinely spooky atmosphere , several aberrant touches ( Jason and Bridget like to spy on Larry as he's doing just what you think with the girls he picks up ) , and a harrowing conclusion , this pleasingly offbeat , inspired and unjustly overlooked low-budget horror sleeper deserves to be both better known and more widely seen by fans of enjoyably deviant outr cinema .
Assured ace race car driver Dave Owens ( a likable performance by Frankie Avalon ) goes down south to compete in the local stock car races . Dave winds up at loggerheads with cocky reigning champion Sony Leander Fox ( a deliciously smarmy portrayal by Fabian ) . Moreover , Dave also starts running moonshine for sleazeball auto garage owner Charlie Bigg ( a nicely slimy turn by Harvey Lembeck ) . Director / co-writer William Asher relates the entertaining story at a snappy pace , maintains a breezy tone throughout , delivers a flavorsome evocation of the downhome setting , and stages the rousing vehicular carnage with considerable panache . Yummy blonde looker Julie Parrish vamps it up well as good-hearted young widow Martha . Nifty supporting contributions by the ever-adorable Annette Funicello as the sweet Jane , Chill Wills as jolly racetrack owner Big Jaw , Douglas Henderson as shifty federal agent Hastings , and Len Lesser as a genial hillbilly . The gritty and exciting racetrack footage is the authentic gnarly article . A couple of rough'n'ready fistfights are also pretty stirring . The cute claymation animation featured at the very start and end is a real hoot . Both Les Baxter's groovy swinging score and Floyd Crosby's sharp , bright widescreen cinematography are up to speed . As an added bonus , Frankie and Annette belt out a few catchy and charming songs . Better still , the characters even have a little depth to them . A fun flick .
Peter Fonda's second directorial effort following the excellent feminist Western " The Hired Hand " makes for an extremely atypical and hence compelling post-holocaust sci-fi survivalist message movie related in the form of a subtle , very serious and pertinent ecological parable concerning mankind's selfish , self-destructive nature and careless depletion of natural resources at the expense of our planet's well being . Twelve young scientists ( a gawky , scrawny , long stringy-haired then unknown Keith Carradine among ' em ) travel to the future to the year 2044 in order to avoid an impending apocalypse and start civilization afresh . The group hike across the dry , arid , desolate rocky terrain , bicker amongst themselves , discover a tribe of retarded third generation post-nuke survivors , and gradually go crazy , eventually degenerating into total murderous barbarism . Although marred by an awkward opening third , wildly erratic acting from a largely amateur no-name cast , occasionally tiresome and over-deliberate draggy pacing , and a few pretentious moments , this still oddly haunting , engrossing and quietly unsettling low-budget curio intelligently makes an important statement about the possible grim destiny of our increasingly callous and environmentally wasteful society . Peter Fonda's spare , low-key , suitably grave and understated direction ably creates a chilling mood of stark despair and horror , while Bruce Logan's pretty , picturesque cinematography offers a dazzling array of lovely , sun-blasted visuals , Thomas Matthiesen's terse , thoughtful , quite novel and idiosyncratic script presents a cogent dire warning future shock scenario with stunning clarity and concision , and Bruce Langhorne's eerie score mines a fine line in spooky'n'shuddery atonal rhythms . Not a complete success , but a nice , admirable , appealingly sincere and well-meaning addition to post-holocaust science fiction cinema just the same .
Your standard motley assortment of folks in a small remote tavern find themselves under attack by a ferocious family of foul and deadly carnivorous subhuman monsters . That's basically it for the admittedly skimpy plot , but luckily what we got here is a pleasingly straightforward and unpretentious rough'n'ready Grade B low-budget fright flick that gets right down to exciting brass tacks and delivers a handy helping of the lowdown funky'n'junky goods with infectiously full-throttle brio . Director John Gulager keeps the breakneck pace nonstop throughout , creates a reasonably tense and creepy atmosphere , and pours on the graphic gore with joyously gruesome abandon ( both limbs and heads get torn off , plus one dude has his noggin crushed like a giant squishy grape and the horrible beasts even eat a little boy ! ) . The game cast have a ball with their generic stock parts : Balthazar Getty as an arrogant loudmouth pool hustler , Navi Rawat as the tough , gutsy heroine , Henry Rollins as an inane , ineffectual motivational speaker , Duane Whitacker as a redneck lout , Jason Mewes as himself ( he gets bumped off early in the action ) , Judah Friedlander as a pathetic dorky loser , Josh Zuckerman as a spunky cripple , Krista Allen as a scrappy waitress , Jenny Wade as a perky bar maid , and Clu Gulager as a craggy , weary bartender are all a great deal of fun to watch . Moreover , the cool monsters ( thankfully not CGI ; instead they're guys in nifty elaborate suits ) , Thomas L . Callaway's sharp , gritty , lively cinematography , the brash humor ( the snappy character bios are hilarious and the startling monster sex scene is a raunchy hoot ) , and Steve Edwards ' spooky'n'shuddery score are all on the money excellent . Good , trashy low-grade horror creature feature fun .
A group of college student anthropologists and a rival team of no-count treasure hunters run afoul of a lethal tribe of primitive cannibals led by an evil witch doctor while checking out a dangerous jungle on a remote island . It's up to feisty'n'fetching Tarzanesque jungle babe Jelita ( ravishing brunette fox Lydia Kandou ) to keep everyone alive . Man , does this delightfully batty and berserk jaw-dropper possess all the right wonderfully ridiculous stuff to qualify as a real four star serving of deliciously cheesy schlock : we've got energetic direction by Danu Umbara , a constant brisk pace , hokey mild gore , a funky , thumping , syncopated score by Gatot Sudarto , plenty of outrageously wild and violent over-the-top fight scenes , laughably lousy dubbing , broadly drawn characters , vibrant , colorful cinematography by Bambang Trimakno , a protracted car chase , inept overuse of strenuous slow motion , a hilarious tribe of grunting ape-like untamed savages , and tacky ( far from ) special effects . Alas , the obligatory smidgen of gratuitous female nudity is optically fogged , but thankfully we still have a gaggle of good-looking gals running amok in skimpy fur two piece bikini outfits . Overall , this film possesses an infectiously kitschy charm that's impossible to either resist or dislike . A total gut-busting riot .
The best , most successful and entertaining heist movies are the ones that roll up their sleeves , spit on their hands , and promptly get down to thrilling brass tacks with topmost immediate urgency and a refreshing lack of momentum-killing pretense . This crackerjack number sure does the above cited correct thing in a neatly taut , streamlined and economical manner thanks to Stuart Rafill's proficient direction and a laudably terse , padding-free script . Four desperate , engagingly scruffy and nervous unemployed blue collar schmoes - - rugged macho man James Brolin , agreeable go-along-to-get-along nice guy Bruce Davison , funky black smartaleck Cleavon Little and excitable worrywart Chick Vennera - - go to South America to rob a sexy $5 million from casually ruthless drug lord James Coburn ( who's fine in a juicy villain role which allows him to radiate calmly malevolent menace from every laid-back evil pore ) . Of course , the caper doesn't go off without any foul-ups occurring : Little and Vennera are nabbed by Coburn's flunkies while Brolin and Davison run afoul of a comically inept bandito gang led by the ever-hammy Anthony Quinn . Okay , so the basic premise isn't terribly original . Fortunately , the swiftly efficient execution , lots of spot-on sassy humor , perils aplenty , and the uniformly sound acting fully compensate for the admittedly trite story . The vastly underrated Brolin once again proves he's got the essential rough'n'tumble stuff to cut it as a sturdy action lead , Davison , Little and Vennera lend expert support as Brolin's plausibly reluctant and out-of-their-element pals , erstwhile Bionic Woman Lindsay Wagner further compliments the already pretty jungle scenery as the token feisty extraneous babe , and Ernest Borgnine contributes a funny cameo as a bluff illegal arms dealer . Trim , rousing and well worth checking out .
Few studios could rival Cannon back in the 80's when it came to cranking out slickly mounted give the audience what they've paid to see action / adventure potboilers . Sure , their films were usually pretty empty-headed and utterly lacking in originality , but they delivered the goods just the same in an admirably precise and economical manner . " Thunder Run " is a solid example of Cannon's winning formula : it's simple , basic and to the point . Forrest Tucker in his final film role affably portrays Charlie Morrison , a crusty crackerjack gear-gammer and Korean war veteran who's hired by crafty government agent John Ireland to haul a load of plutonium freight across a long , lonely stretch of Nevada desert backroads . Naturally , there's one immense hitch : a lethal band of nuclear terrorists led by a sensationally slimy Alan Rachins want to steal the plutonium , so Morrison , assisted by his loving grandson Chris ( likable John Shepherd ) , stacks the odds more in his favor by building himself an almighty , heavily armored , tank-like 65-foot 18-wheeler supertruck called " Big Thunder . " Gary Hudson's vigorous direction ensures that this tightly efficient B-picture chase thriller storms along in a pleasingly straightforward and single-minded manner akin to Morrison's truck : we've got a ceaseless rapid-fire pace , gritty , here's-dirt-in-your-eye ground level camera-work by Harvey Genkins , amusingly dopey adolescent sex hi-jinks ( a klutzy stringbean electronics whiz kid dweeb does just what you think with a gorgeously slinky blonde babe ) , an incessantly pounding score by Jay Levy , frequent bright yellow explosions , a terrifically trashy hard rock soundtrack , engaging characters ( Jill Whitlow of " Night of the Creeps " fame is especially endearing as Chris ' sweet girlfriend ) , a few lovably cheesy gimmicks ( would you believe outrageously garish , camouflage-painted Volkswagons equipped with rocker launchers ? ) , and , most importantly , more wild , careening , knock-you-out-of-your-seat frantic and exciting piston-pumping car chase action than you can shake a tire iron at . Okay , as far as creativity is concerned this puppy's admittedly low on gas , but it still rattles along with a certain rousing streamlined momentum nonetheless .
1978 , Los Angeles . Lovely and charming psychiatrist Dr . Samantha Stone ( well played by the gorgeous Brittany Daniel ) interviews nervous and scared suspected serial killer Kenneth Bianchi ( a strong and compelling performance by Clifton Collins , Jr . ) in order to determine if he's sane or crazy . Director / co-writer Chris Farber relates this engrossing story in a deliciously flashy'n'trashy style which creates a considerable amount of raw energy and crackling intensity . Farber's unapologetically seamy and nasty rub-your-nose-in-the-gutter sensibility may not be subtle , but it does give the picture a lurid vitality that's both exciting and arresting in equal measure . Moreover , there's a vivid and credible evocation of the wild anything-goes hedonism and amorality of the 70's . For example , Samantha is the total opposite of a squeaky clean goody-goody two shoes heroine ; instead she's a completely uninhibited swinger who smokes pot and participates in crazy drug'n'sex orgies . Daniel and Collins , Jr . are both excellent in the leads , with Collins , Jr . in particular a stand-out with his frightening portrayal of raging psychosis and seething misogyny . The supporting cast is likewise solid and praiseworthy : Lake Bell as Samantha's brassy District Attorney best friend Jillian Dunne , Bret Roberts as Samantha's scuzzy dope dealer boyfriend Jack , Tom Wright as the hard-nosed Detective Bryant , and Mike Haggerty as Bryant's equally gruff partner Detective Smith . Tomas Arana makes a brief , but still memorably chilling appearance as the coarse and slimy Angelo Buono . Eliot Rockett's gaudy , dynamic cinematography keeps the camera constantly moving throughout while Ryan Beveridge's moody score further enhances the overall edgy tone . As a nice added bonus , the luscious Daniel bares her beautiful body a few times . A pleasingly tawdry wallow in the celluloid sewer .
Your standard " Frankenstein " esque mad scientist messing around with ill-advised covert bacteriological war experiments premise gets clumsily crossed with a similarly hackneyed crazed killer on the loose story with a dash of that old reliable standby of the deadly plague which could wipe out thousands of folks if it isn't nipped in the bud right away in this energetically cheesy and entertainingly slapdash grab-bag Italian sci-fi / horror thriller . An accident at a top secret government lab turns a professor into a hideously malformed , murderously deranged and seemingly indestructible humanoid beast with scraggly hair , an ugly , bloated , pus-oozing , skin-peeling boil-like face , superhuman strength , a horrid wheezy moan of a voice , and a decidedly antisocial sanguinary disposition . Worse yet , Mr . Unsightly Dementoid Freakshow has a highly lethal and contagious degenerative disease which forces anyone infected with said ailment to bag other people for their precious blood . Naturally , the ghastly mutant goes on a grisly killing spree in Great Britain , attacking a libidinous teenage couple doing just what you think in the back of a car , a lovely young blonde lady in the middle of taking a shower , the audience in a movie theater watching an asinine comedy , a plastered out of his skull drunk , and , best of all , even a priest ( yes ! ) . It's up to two-fisted man of action David Warbeck ( who carries himself here with the same stolid austerity he brought to such Lucio Fulci flicks as " The Beyond " and " The Black Cat " ) and fetching femme doctor Janet ( " Eaten Alive , " " The Gates of Hell " ) Agren to stop the pitiably grotesque monster before things get disastrously out of hand . Sure , the basic plot is anything but original or inspired , but handy helpings of frequent violence , a grimly serious tone , Gionanni Bergamini's spirited direction , an unerringly fast and steady pace , and the wildly eventful narrative ensure that this baby remains a satisfyingly schlocky affair from start to finish just the same .
Poor Susan ( excellently played by the lovely and beguiling blonde beauty Suzanna Ling ) . The comely , but weird misunderstood misfit teenage girl lives with her undertaker father in a mortuary . She has an unnatural affinity for spiders . Susan catches her shrewish mother cheating on her father with her dad's own brother . Susan kills her mom by putting a tarantula in her bed . She also sics her lethal arachnid friends on other folks who rub her the wrong way ; said victims of her dangerous wrath include a bunch of local hooligans who break into the mortuary to steal a coffin and Susan's disgustingly incestuous and lecherous uncle ( a superbly sleazy Eric Mason ) . Directed in an effectively blunt and basic manner by Chris Munger , " Kiss of the Tarantula " makes the grade as a creepy and effective low-budget 70's grindhouse scarefest thanks to Phillan Bishop's eerie synthesizer score , credible acting from a solid no-name cast , an arrestingly brooding rustic atmosphere , a grimly serious tone , Henning Schellerup's gritty photography , a wickedly startling surprise twist ending , and several genuinely unsettling spider attack murder set pieces ( the sequence where a handful of libidinous kids doing just what you think in a parked car at a drive-in get assaulted by the spiders is the definite flesh-crawling icky highlight ) . A shamefully neglected and hence underrated teen terror tale that's well worth seeing .
Ex Special Ops government agent Derek Leigh ( an excellent performance by Maxwell Caulfield ) vows revenge on evil drug lord Damian Bandera ( a splendidly nasty Trevor Goddard ) after Bandera murders his wife and son . Leigh assumes the identity of the Jaguar , a just and heroic crime fighting superhero who's patterned after drawings by his son . Directed with surprising style and panache by veteran straight-to-video exploitation picture expert David DeCoteau , with slick , kinetic cinematography by Howard Wexler , a constant steady pace , a funky , rousing , syncopated score by Jeff Walton , a cool animated opening credits sequence , and plenty of rousing rough'n'tumble action set pieces , this flick certainly delivers the immensely entertaining B-movie goods in a pleasingly snappy and straightforward manner . Caulfield makes for a strong and likable protagonist ; he receives fine support from Linda Blair as perky , sympathetic detective Cody Johnson , Tom Badal as Cody's ramrod partner Roger Reed , Paul Bartel as helpful weapons master Toymaker , John Fujioka as tough martial arts instructor Tanaka , Stacy Keach as Derek's gruff former superior the Commander , Paul Regina as uncooperative government agent Randall Bentley , Vincent Klyn as scumbag dope pusher Sonny De Pazos , and Fiona Hutchison as Derek's loving wife Karen . A fun little romp .
How's this for a really inspired and effective handy-dandy sci-fi / horror combo premise : Let's take your basic randomly selected motley assortment of everyday folks gathered together in a deep , isolated , self-contained underground nuclear fall-out shelter so they can survive an impending end-of-the-world holocaust tale and embellish on this standard situation with a borrowing from the then hip killer-animals-run-amuck trend by having a horde of vicious , relentless , chattering vampire bats with a taste for human blood attack the understandably terrified bunch at regular bloodcurdling intervals . Sounds like a pretty desperately reaching " high concept " effort , right ? Well , that brusque blow-off assumption is wrong . Dead wrong . Under episodic TV show vet Sutton Roley's taut , capable direction the admittedly threadbare story works surprisingly well , resulting in a genuinely scary , creepy and suspenseful nail-biter . The neatly varied cast helps a lot ; they fill out their stock roles with commendable conviction . Former child actor Jackie Cooper portrays a cross , feet-of-clay rich jerk grumbler with stand-out sliminess . Constantly reliable B-pic perennials Richard Jaeckel ( who later had a fatal run-in with a killer bear in " Grizzly " and got offed by a pack of wild dogs in " Day of the Animals " ) and Alex Cord ( the latter bears a passing resemblance to tough guy thesp extraordinaire William Smith here ) make for properly stalwart heroes . The always composed and elegant Diana Muldaur brings a welcome touch of class to the tense , grisly proceedings . Future " Hill Street Blues " regular Barbara Babcock is a lovely damsel in distress . A bespectacled Bradford Dillman ( who went on to get stung to death by killer bees in " The Swarm " and had his face nibbled on by carnivorous fish in " Piranha " ) nerds it up nicely as a duplicitous dweeby scientist . Chronically unsung character actors Pedro Armendariz , Jr . and Lincoln Kilpatrick contribute solid performances as an eminently expendable decent dude and a gallant , rugged Olympic athlete , respectively . The sequence where Kilpatrick tries to climb out of the subterranean shelter on a rope is both gripping and nerve-wracking . The bat attacks are almost unbearably frightening and ferocious . The claustrophobic set design , Gabriel Torres ' cramped , closed-in cinematography , Fred Karlin's jazzy , spooky score , the unremittingly eerie tone , and the bleakly ironic ending all add considerably to the gut-wrenching tension . And those nasty screeching bats are truly horrifying little suckers !
The drab tranquility of the sleepy little town of Rockville gets harshly thrown out of wack after four teens are viciously murdered . It's up to stalwart Sheriff Duncan ( a strikingly good portrayal by the usually lacking Joe Estevez ) and sincere , but rather inept Deputy Charlie Fisher ( the engagingly geeky Circus Szalewski ) , assisted by obsessively thorough Detective Amy Rogers ( well played by ravishing brunette Nicole Buehrer ) , to catch the culprit . The most probable suspect is a young lady who just escaped from a nearby asylum . The young lady is arrested , attempts to get away and is subsequently killed while making her attempt . But the seemingly simple cut and dried case is far from over or solved . In fact , it's just the opening of a whole can of worms which will change several people's lives forever . " The Rockville Slayer " rates as a most pleasant and unexpected surprise . For starters , it's a complex and involving mystery thriller instead of the mindless slasher horror flick its misleading title suggests . Moreover , the well-drawn characters are refreshingly real , flawed and recognizably human . Director Marc Selz , working from his own intricate and intriguing script , delivers a nice smattering of nudity and grisly violence , effectively creates a creepy and unnerving atmosphere , offers plenty of truly startling plot twists , and keeps the pace moving forward at a pleasingly speedy clip . The fine cast all contribute excellent performances , with especially nifty appearances by Linnea Quigley as a local harlot who went crazy and the ever-intimidating Robert Z'Dar as her brutish husband . Kudos are also in order for Joe Harris ' crisp , handsome cinematography and Karl Sundstrom's neatly spare'n'shivery synthesizer score . Overall , this baby qualifies as a real strong and satisfying unsung little sleeper .
The late 70's and early 80's saw a surprising rash of entertainingly trashy low-budget haunted house chiller dillers , resulting in the vigorously pulpy " The Evil , " the not half bad " The Hearse , " the dreary " Death Ship , " the enjoyably sleazy " The House Where Evil Dwells , " and this pleasingly lurid outing , which starts out pretty low-key and unsettling before delightfully degenerating into a wildly frantic and gruesome over-the-top shockfest . Lauren Cochran ( a deeply sympathetic performance by the wispily attractive Robin Groves ) is a hugely successful , but extremely repressed and neurotic author of Gothic novels who suffers from severe agoraphobia . So Lauren decides to take a load off and subsequently acquire a firmer hold on her shaky sanity by taking a much-needed vacation in the country . Lauren holes up in a musty , dingy , dilapidated old Victorian mansion that turns out to be a onetime bordello haunted by the vengeful , insanely laughing specter of the red-haired madame ( the ever-sultry Gloria Grahame in her last film role ) . When Lauren tries to find out about the squalid abode's grimy past history , several seedy secondary male characters meet ghastly untimely ends and Lauren herself gets manipulated by the unrestful spirits of prostitutes murdered in the house decades ago to exact a brutal revenge on the people responsible for the massacre . Former porno filmmaker Armand Weston , who did both the capable direction and co-wrote the solid , twisty , engrossingly sordid script , initially opts for a quietly nerve-rattling and unexpectedly delicate things are slightly out of whack eerie and mysterious mood , what with windows strangely breaking , a Victrola suddenly playing in the dead of night , Lauren experiencing horrific nightmares , cryptic messages left on Lauren's typewriter , and the ghost of the madame making sporadic jarring manifestations . Then the killings begin about halfway through and the film starts laying on the crudely visceral shocks something thick , thus making this one of those rare fright flicks that manages the tricky feat of blending an ambiguously creepy-crawly atmosphere with more bluntly presented jump-out-at-you scare tactics with praiseworthy effectiveness . The noodling synthesizer score by Jack Malkin and Kim Scholes and Joao Fernandes ' gloomy cinematography contribute greatly to the overall gooesepimply spookiness while old reliable John Carradine turns in his customary robust cameo as a cranky , wheelchair-bound town elder with a few dirty skeletons in his fiercely guarded closet . Moreover , the sex , nudity and violence quotient is reasonably high , therefor making this picture satisfyingly scuzzy exploitation fare as well . Plus there's a thoughtful and provocative underlying subtext concerning closure and catharsis that's neatly integrated into the story . With all these things working in its favor , this feature overall sizes up as an unjustly neglected sleeper that's well worth checking out .
This neat ten minute short is featured as an extra on the DVD for the enjoyably nasty redneck horror zombie splatter hoot " Trailer Park of Terror . " It's a cool and funny series of mock interviews with the cast members who portray the colorfully vile , hateful and repulsive hillbilly stereotype zombie characters . Nichole Hiltz as the saucy and devilishly seductive Norma boasts that she's the queen of the trailer park while Michelle Lee's lusty Asian masseuse Miss China claims otherwise . Ed Corbin's mean , ill-tempered Vietnam veteran Sergeant Stank brags about his special beef jerky recipe . Myk Watford's rowdy wannabe Southern rocker Roach nurses delusions of scoring a record deal with a major music label . Lew Temple's whiny Marv complains about Norma not wanting him anymore . Best of all , Trisha Rae Stahl's gluttonous morbidly obese Larlene happily discusses her ravenous love for meat . This short has the same infectiously twisted sense of rude'n'rude hick black humor as the movie . Fans of the flick should get a kick out of this baby .
Rugged big game hunter Dan Fuller ( a solid and likable performance by Lance Fuller ) discovers much to his dismay that his lovely new bride Laura ( a nicely sexy portrayal by fetching brunette Charlotte Austin ) has a most troubling and peculiar affinity for gorillas . Dan is forced to shoot his pet ape Spanky ( Steve Calvert in a funky suit ) dead after the big brute breaks free from his basement cage and goes after Laura . Dan takes Laura with him on a safari to Africa . The expedition not only runs afoul of two lethal tigers , but also a couple of hulking gorillas who abduct Laura . Director Adrian Weiss milks plenty of compellingly aberrant thrills from the typically outlandish script by the notorious Ed Wood , Jr . : Weiss treats the weird and perverse premise with admirable seriousness , relates the gloriously wacky story at a steady pace , and concludes things on a bravely downbeat note . Naturally , Wood's script features the inevitable reference to angora sweaters and incorporates a pretty far-fetched reincarnation theme into the already heady mix ( Laura was a gorilla in a previous life ! ) . Kudos are in order for the surprisingly sound and sincere acting by sterling leads Fuller and Austin ; they receive sturdy support from Johnny Roth as loyal native houseboy Taro and William Justine as helpful psychiatrist Dr . Carl Reiner . The scenes with the savage tigers attacking people are staged with rousing aplomb . Roland Price's sharp black and white cinematography and Les Baxter's sweeping orchestral score are both up to par . A pleasingly offbeat and unusual little oddity .
One of the best , most grimly realistic and , alas , very neglected and under-appreciated 70's prison films , a meticulously detailed and unflinching portrait of the harsh , rigidly set and strictly enforced caste system which exists within your average penitentiary . Thomas Waites gives a fine , sturdy , quietly menacing performance as Chilly , a brutal , cagey , ruthless top con who governs over a Staten Island calaboose's black market with the proverbial iron fist . John Heard delivers a strikingly excellent and appealing turn as a shy , soft-spoken wife killer who winds up locking horns with Waites after he borrows cigarettes from him without paying for them first . Lane Smith ( Nick Nolte's sympathetic cell mate in the lovely drama " Weeds " and the nasty authoritarian warden in the superior supernatural revenge horror picture " Prison " ) as the hard-nosed security captain , Joe Grafasi as a timid , browbeaten inmate , Richard Bright ( Al Neri in the " Godfather " movies ) as a shrewd , sneaky top con determined to knock Waites off his throne , and a young James Remar in his film debut as a surly punk kid lend top notch support . But the guy who clearly makes off with the entire feature is Mike Kellin , an always outstanding heavy-set , craggy-faced character actor who never received his full due . Kellin's terrific , touching , wistfully funny portrayal of Red , an amiable , but pretty imbecilic elderly felon who's been in the joint for so long that he's completely lost sync with the outside world and thus will forever remain behind bars for life , radiates a frail yearning and wounded hangdog humanity that's simply a wonder to behold . The scene where Red makes a game , albeit futile attempt at persuading the parole board to spring him rates as a tragicomic gem ; it's both sadly affecting and wryly amusing at the same time - - and it's followed by an extraordinarily moving moment of devastating heartbreak that's made all the more poignant by being presented with commendable taste , subtlety and understatement . Raphael D . Silver's tough , steady , laudable direction , aided by Alan Metzger's silvery , velvety cinematography and Charles Gross ' haunting , low-key , melancholy jazz score , forcefully renders a properly grim , desolate and credibly down'n'dirty jailhouse milieu . Only the somewhat rambling and occasionally scattershot narrative and an incongruously light-hearted finale fail to fully pass muster . Those faults aside , " On the Yard " overall cuts it as a gritty , hard-hitting , totally absorbing and convincing guys doin ' time sleeper .
Eager beaver Vince ( a fine performance by Bill Paxton ) and his more cynical buddy Don ( the always excellent William Sadler ) are two Arkansas firemen who stumble across a map to a fortune in gold . Vince and Don go to a rundown derelict factory located in a dangerous East St . Louis ghetto neighborhood to retrieve the loot . They find themselves in considerable jeopardy when they run afoul of a lethal gang of drug dealers led by the ruthless King James ( a superbly menacing Ice T ) and his hot-tempered right-hand man Savon ( Ice Cube in peak surly form ) . Don and Vince manage to abduct King James ' crippled junkie brother Lucky ( a nicely twitchy De'voreaux White ) , which leads to a tense cat and mouse stand-off between the two opposing groups . Director Walter Hill relates the narrative hurtling along at a constant breakneck pace , expertly milks a maximum amount of suspense from the absorbing story , and stages the stirring action scenes with his trademark fiery brio and striking style . The tight , edgy script by Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis makes a bleak and potent statement about how greed and power lust bring out the worst in people while making a radical departure from the standard action picture formula : There are no clear-cut distinctions between the good guys and the bad guys in this dark tale of betrayal and disloyalty ; instead we've got a handful of desperate folks who all find themselves neck deep in a whole lot of trouble . The film further benefits from the uniformly sound acting from a tip-top cast : Paxton and Sadler have a sturdy , relaxed rapport , Ice T and Ice Cube spar with each other with rip-snorting gusto , plus there are stand-out turns by Art Evans as bitter , hapless old bum Bradlee , Stoney Jackson as the suave Wickey , Bruce Young as smooth gun dealer Raymond , Tommy " Tiny " Lester as the hulking Cletus , and Gwenn Plummer as itchy trigger man Luther . Lloyd Ahern's slick cinematography and Ry Cooder's rattling , rousing bluesy score are both solid and effective . The last third of the movie is especially gripping and exciting . A bang-up little beaut .
Ruggero Deodato's rather belated entry in the then trendy " Friday the 13th " - inspired 80's summercamp slasher horror sub-genre is a much more solid , enjoyable and even fairly scary fright feature than it's usually given credit for being . The dead simple story can be summed up in a single sentence : a hairy , homely , horrible homicidal Indian shaman viciously bumps off an affable bunch of fun-loving teens vacationing in a lovely , remote campsite that's located on a cursed area of land that was once owned by Native Americans . Yep , that's about it as far as a complex narrative is concerned . And that's about all you need , if you ask me . I mean , in a body count pic like this the plot really doesn't matter , now does it ? The toothpick-lean plot aside , the film delivers the goods overall : spaghetti splatter specialist Deodato ( the sweet , subtle , sophisticated gent who blessed us with the infamous " Cannibal Holocaust " ) provides adroit direction , the slick , sinuous , expansive cinematography is real easy on the eyes ( the shots where a fluid Steadicam goes snaking hither and tither amongst the trees are real nice ) , Goblin's Claudio Simonetti hits a righteously spooky , shimmering groove with his throbbing rock score , the kill scenes pack a gruesome , lingering wallop ( throat gashings , a girl gets dragged through broken glass , the ol ' axe in the noggin bit , that sort of grisly stuff ) , the characters are appealing , well-developed and attractive , there's a hefty amount of gratuitous nudity ( mostly female , but there's a naked fat guy , too ) , the rapid pace never falters , and the picturesque forest locations evoke a harrowingly palpable sense of ambient menace . The choice trash movie supporting cast qualifies as another significant asset : the ever-intense David ( " The Last House on the Left " ) Hess as the grouchy , unfriendly camp caretaker , the always winsome Mimsy ( " Riot on Sunset Strip " ) Farmer as Hess ' sweet , neglected , unfaithful wife and the great Charles ( " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " ) Napier as the bluff , helpful sheriff Mimsy's having an adulterous fling with , plus brief appearances by John ( " Deported Women of the SS Special Section " ) Steiner and Ivan ( " Jungle Holocaust " ) Rassimov . Sure , this movie sure ain't no classic , but it's still a superior sylvan slaughterfest just the same .
The plot for this family feature is pretty negligible ( an eminently insufferable should-be lovable'n'huggable little girl adopts a cuddly capuchin who's been trained to steal things as a pet and hides the little bugger from her disapproving parents ) , but fortunately this film does have one tremendous ace up its otherwise empty sleeve : the chimp's evil , sinister , glowering gypsy organ-grinder owner is played by none other than a hilariously miscast Harvey Keitel ! Sporting a mouth full of gleaming gold teeth , long , greasy , unwashed hair , an awful wardrobe of blindingly gaudy gypsy rags , gold chains hanging around his chest , a feeble attempt at a dense European accent that's betrayed by Harve's unmistakable Brooklyn rumble , and the same crazed'n'creepy aura that he brought to his sleazy street corner pimp role in " Taxi Driver , " the ever-manic Keitel acts with a savage intensity and gritty authenticity which seems alarmingly out of place in an alleged kiddie pic . One simply hasn't lived until witnessing the hair-raising moment in which Harvey blames the monkey for the recent loss of his latest girlfriend : " She even took my freakin ' food ! , " Keitel roars at the poor , cowering creature . " She hated you and your stinkin ' mess ! " Alas , at no point in the film does Harvey curse out the monkey at the top of his lungs while furiously masturbating . Moreover , this flick's cast and crew should send the mind of any devout trash cinema aficionado reeling : Ridley Scott ( ! ) was the executive producer , cinematographer Luciano Tovoli also shot Dario Argento's landmark giallo " Tenebre , " " Bad Georgia Road " director John Broderick co-produced , and the cast includes such " what the hell are they doing here ? " notables as Mimi Rogers , Christopher McDonald , and dependably gruff Abel Ferrara movie mainstay Victor Argo in one of his customary mob capo parts . And one last remark before I conclude this particular comment : I bet dollars-to-donuts that there's a whole generation of hopelessly messed-up six year old tykes who are currently experiencing marrow-freezing nightmares because of Harvey Keitel's frightening , fire-breathing , full-throttle histrionics in this film .
Sasquatch splatter schlock reaches its seriously stupid jaw-dropping zenith with this incredibly idiotic low-budget direct-to-video sci-fi / horror atrocity . A gaggle of bonehead kids venture into a spooky forest called Demon Woods looking for Bigfoot . Well , these immature collegiate dolts find Bigfoot all right : He's one mean bloodthirsty bastard with a nasty propensity for tearing off heads and spearing folks in the stomach with a tree branch . WARNING : Possible SPOILERS ahead . In a stupendously ridiculous surprise twist ending ( that's directly swiped from the 70's " Six Million Dollar Man " TV series ) , Sasquatch ultimately gets exposed as a front for a nefarious extraterrestrial who's worshiped by a crazed priest as a god ( ! ) , has a fondness for eating human hearts ( ! ! ) , and possesses the magical ability to reanimate the freshly dead so it can use the zombies as slave labor ( ! ! ! ) . As one character brilliantly deduces early in the supremely inane action , " Hey man , there's weird st in these woods ! Do you know what I mean ? " No kiddin ' , dude . But that's not all this silly dilly has to offer . We also get clumsy ( mis ) direction by Emmett Alston , who previously gave us the equally awful ( and uproarious ) " Nine Deaths of the Ninja . " Then there's the sorry sight of a rotund , trapped - in - a - dismal - career - slump George Kennedy grumbling his way through the demeaning part of a crusty old father who's determined to bag Bigfoot because it murdered his daughter . Better still , three luscious ladies dutifully doff their duds in the name of sleazy low-grade exploitation : Pamela Gilbert does just what you think with her boyfriend , Colleen McDermott takes a gratuitous shower , and the always desirable Michelle Bauer shucks her bikini top in order to avoid tan lines . The rusty tin-eared dialogue includes such priceless gems as " Come on you six foot fleabag ! " A real gut-buster .
Mischievous Johnny Banes ( scrappy Dion Gossett ) has an unfortunate knack for getting into all kinds of trouble : he smokes , lies , steals , rudely disrupts class , doesn't do his schoolwork , and even mugs an old guy for his money ! Worse yet , Johnny's vain struggling actress mother Denise ( nicely played by Sandy Reed ) and hard-working insurance salesman stepfather Phil ( a strong and likable performance by Renny Roker ) spend more time squabbling with each other than they do with Johnny . Writer / director Horace Jackson concocts a somewhat clumsy , but well-meaning and insightful social drama that pertinently addresses how severe parental neglect contributes substantially to juvenile delinquency . Moreover , Jackson tosses in occasional " what the hell ? " unexpected oddball moments : Denise gives Johnny a rubdown in a scene that's simmering with incestuous undertones and in one especially startling sequence a creepy pedophile assaults a little girl in a bathroom . The jolting downbeat ending packs a pretty potent punch , too . The kid actors are all appealingly natural ( Gossett in particular impresses as the moody and unhappy Johnny ) . Rich Holmes is memorably hateful as stern history teacher Mr . Bishop . Dennis Coffey's funky , syncopated score and Mark Rasmussen's plain , no-frills cinematography further enhance the gritty realism of this moving and effective picture .
Stanley Coopersmith ( a fine and engaging performance by Clint Howard in his first juicy lead role ) , a paunchy , put-upon misfit techno nerd , gets in touch with Ol ' Scratch via way of a computer hook-up ( ! ) so he can get revenge on the vile antagonistic jerks who constantly accost him at the elite snobby military academy he attends . Directed with remarkably infectious go-for-it style and verve by Eric Weston and featuring plenty of outrageously over-the-top gruesome splatter ( gory highlights include a heart being torn out of someone's chest , a head being spun around and Coopersmith splitting a guy's noggin in two with a sword ) , a little gratuitous nudity ( the luscious Lynn Hancock warrants special kudos here as a comely , but bitchy secretary who gets attacked and eaten by ferocious demonic pigs while taking a shower ) , and a boffo shoot-the-fireworks wild climax set in a church , this funky early 80's low-budget " Carrie " clone sizes up as a whole lot of gleefully mindless schlocky fun . Howard simply shines in a strong and sympathetic substantial starring part , receiving sterling support from R . G . Armstrong as a boozy , abusive janitor , Charles Tyner as the stern colonel who runs the school , Lenny Montana as a nice guy cook , Richard Moll as an evil Devil cult leader , Hamilton Camp as a mean English teacher , Joe Cortese as a nasty priest , and Don Stark as Coopersmith's chief cruel cadet tormentor . The bang-up Anchor Bay DVD offers a nice widescreen presentation of an uncut and uncensored print along with the theatrical trailer , a still and poster gallery , and a very lively , informative and entertaining commentary by Weston and Howard . A delightfully trashy horror hoot .
A young couple - - father Ben ( solid Charles Bateman ) , wife Nicky ( the lovely Ahna Capri ) and their daughter KT ( the cute Geri Reischl of " I Dismember Mama " fame ) - - find themselves trapped in a small California desert town populated by hysterical lunatics . Worse yet , there's a pernicious Satanic cult that's been abducting little children for their own diabolical purposes . Director Bernard McEveety , working from an offbeat and inspired script by William Welch and L . Q . Jones ( " Devil Times Five " director Sean MacGregor came up with the bizarre story ) , relates the compellingly oddball plot at a slow , yet steady pace and ably creates a creepy , edgy , mysterious ooga-booga atmosphere . Strother Martin delivers a wonderfully wicked and robust performance as Doc Duncan , who's the gleefully sinister leader of the evil sect . The top-rate cast of excellent character actors qualifies as a substantial asset : Jones as gruff , no-nonsense Sheriff Hillsboro , Alvy Moore as friendly local Toby , and Charles Robinson as a shrewd , fiercely devout priest Jack . John Arthur Morrill's bright , polished widescreen cinematography , Jamie Mendoza-Nava's spooky score , and the wild , rousing climactic black mass ritual are all likewise up to speed . The idea of having toys come to murderous life is simply ingenious ( the opening scene with a toy tank coming real and crushing a family in their car is truly jolting ) . Nice eerily ambiguous ending , too . A pleasingly idiosyncratic and under-appreciated winner .
An expedition to Mars picks up Colonel Edward Carruthers ( an excellent performance by Marshall Thompson ) , who's the sole survivor of a previous disastrous mission to the red planet . A strong , lethal and seemingly indestructible reptilian alien beast ( Ray " Crash " Corrigan in a cool rubber suit ) also stows away on board the spaceship and starts bumping off various crew members . Director Edward L . Cahn , working from a smart and taut script by noted science fiction author Jerome Bixby , wrings plenty of harrowing suspense from the absorbing premise ( said premise was an obvious influence on " Alien " ) . Moreover , Cahn maintains a steady pace throughout and stages the shock scenes with considerable panache . The cramped set design , stark lighting , and inspired use of both shadows and suggestion all add immensely to the creepy and claustrophobic atmosphere . The shuddery ooga-booga score by Paul Sawtell and Bert Shefter further enhances the eerie tone . Kenneth Peach's crisp black and white cinematography offers several nifty fades , wipes and dissolves . Kudos are likewise in order for the sound acting from a sturdy cast , with especially praiseworthy work by Thompson , Kim Spalding as the hard-nosed Colonel Van Heusen , Ann Doran as the compassionate Dr . Mary Royce , Paul Langton as the sarcastic Lieutenant James Calder , Dabbs Greer as the shrewd Eric Royce , and Richard Benedict as the excitable Bob Finelli . A highly satisfying little winner .
Marjorie ( a splendid and riveting performance by Farrah Fawcett ) narrowly avoids being assaulted in her car by vicious serial rapist Joe ( superbly played with frightening conviction and intensity by James Russo ) . However , Joe steals her wallet and finds out where Marjorie lives . He pays her a visit one fateful day . After subjecting Marjorie to plenty of degradation and psychological abuse , Marjorie manages to turn the tables on Joe and locks him in the fireplace . What is Marjorie going to do with Joe ? Director Robert M . Young and screenwriter William Mastrosimone concoct a harsh , gritty and often disturbing morality tale that astutely nails the stark brutality and painful debasement of rape while also showing how any person when pushed to extremes is capable of shocking acts of violence and inhumanity . Joe perceives women strictly as objects while Marjorie only sees Joe as an " animal . " However , this movie to its admirable credit refuses to make Joe out to be simply a vile one-dimensional creep ; instead he's a terrifyingly real and ultimately pitiable human monster with a wife and kid ( Joe's climactic confession in particular is genuinely poignant ) . Fawcett and Russo are both outstanding in the leads ; they receive fine support from Diana Scarwid as the passive Terry , Alfre Woodard as the sensible Patricia , and Sandy Martin as sympathetic policewoman Officer Sudow . Both Curtis Clark's agile cinematography and J . A . C . Redford's shivery , skin-crawling score greatly enhance the considerable claustrophobic tension . A real powerhouse .
Dean Stockwell gives a deliciously droll and wired portrayal of Jack Whittier , a hotshot presidential press assistant who gets bitten by a werewolf while on assignment in Budapest , Hungary . Whittier comes back to the United States and begins terrorizing the nation's capitol , turning into a werewolf whenever there's a full moon and bumping off various folks in the immediate area . Writer / director Milton Moses Ginsberg concocts one hell of a strangely engaging and amusing eccentric blend of tacky horror and broad political satire , rather clumsily mixing the disparate elements together into a pretty messy , yet still funny and enjoyable synthesis . Technically , the film is very slipshod , with rough , grainy photography , ragged editing , generic spooky music and the laughably shoddy werewolf make-up leaving something to be desired , but still adding substantially to the picture's singularly screwy charm . Fortunately , the game cast come through with delightfully ripe performances : Biff McGuire as the smarmy Nixonesque president , Clifton James as an oily , huffy attorney general , Thayer David as a ramrod police inspector , June House as the president's desirable hottie daughter , Michael Dunn as quirky mad scientist Dr . Kiss , and James Tolkan as a shady fed in sunglasses are a total blast to watch . Best-ever scene : the werewolf attacks a screaming woman trapped in an overturned phone booth . An authentically offbeat curio .
Director / co-screenwriter Bob Clark follows up his surprise hit original with this solid and often sidesplitting sequel . This time those rowdy lads at Angel Beach High are pitted against a bunch of uptight killjoy religious fanatics led by the smarmy Reverand Flaval ( a perfectly slimy Bill Wiley ) who object to a Shakespeare festival on the grounds that the Bard's work is obscene . Moreover , the local Klu Klux Klan aren't happy that Native American John Henry ( likable James Runningfox ) is playing the lead in the production of " Romeo and Juliet . " Clark not only incorporates the expected wild'n'raunchy anything-goes humor that was a key pleasing ingredient of the first film , but also takes wickedly nasty satiric potshots at such deserving targets as racial prejudice , religious hypocrisy and political corruption . Once again the cast really sink their teeth into their parts with unbridled gusto . Special kudos are in order for Dan Monahan as the impish Pee Wee , Kaki Hunter as the cheerfully bawdy Wendy , Nancy Parsons as stern gym teacher Ms . Balbricker , and Eric Christmas as the timid Principal Carter . Comic highlights include a nice tongue-in-cheek homage to Clark's earlier fright feature " Children Shouldn't Play With Dead Things , " Ms . Balbricker singing on the toilet , and Wendy acting like a loud obnoxious ill-mannered immature brat at a posh French restaurant . Cisse Cameron has a memorably sexy bit as a luscious stripper who disrobes in a cemetery . Reginald H . Morris ' slick cinematography , Carl Zittrer's lively , rousing score , and the catchy golden oldies soundtrack are all likewise up to par . There's even a surprising amount of sweet sensitivity to be found amid all the wacky tomfoolery . Granted , this film doesn't totally match the gut-busting hilarity of the incredible original , but it's still plenty of good , naughty fun all the same .
A miserable henpecked sci-fi movie fan ( a solid performance by writer / director Jason Knuth ) wishes that his shrewish and nagging wife ( a perfectly bitchy Beth Knuth ) was dead . The wife gets killed in an automobile accident , but comes back to life as a pesky rot-faced zombie . This short'n'sweet little horror comedy romp maintains a nicely deadpan tone throughout , pokes affectionate fun at both cheesy fright fare and hardcore film nerds , and culminates in a nifty , if rather predictable conclusion . Moreover , the zombie make-up is really gnarly , the cinematography is likewise pretty crisp , the generic shivery synthesizer score does the trick , and the soundtrack boasts a few lively rock songs . Plus the outtakes are absolutely sidesplitting . A real hoot .
Sadistic no-count killer Nanni Vitali ( excellently essayed with lip-smacking wicked relish by Helmut Berger ) and three equally brutish hoodlums escape from prison . The foul foursome embark on a savage spree of rape , murder and robbery . Vitali even abducts and defiles frightened hapless lass Giuliana Caroli ( a solid turn by the strikingly gorgeous Marisa Mell ) . Rugged police Inspector Giulio Santini ( a properly steely performance by Richard Harrison ) becomes determined to bag the despicable Vitali . Writer / director Sergio Grieco keeps the movie rattling along at a constant swift pace , stages the stirring action scenes with considerable rip-snorting brio ( the occasional use of strenuous slow motion is especially effective and impressive ) , and does an expert job of creating and sustaining a harsh , gritty , resolutely tough-minded and nasty-hearted tone . Vittorio Bernini's crisp , handsome widescreen cinematography gives the picture an attractive glossy look . Umberto Smaila's funky , throbbing score likewise hits the groovy spot . Best of all , this extremely hard-edged winner certainly doesn't skimp on the excessive full-bore profanity , tasty female nudity , raunchy sex , and rough , unflinching , no-holds-barred ferocious violence . A satisfyingly sick and vicious little beaut .
Longtime favorite quirky horror cult movie director Jeff Lieberman , the swell fellow who blessed us with such enjoyably idiosyncratic terror treats as " Squirm , " " Blue Sunshine , " " Just Before Dawn , " and " Remote Control , " makes a triumphant belated return to fabulously freaky form with this wickedly funny and entertaining horror black comedy hoot . Bratty ten-year-old Douglas Whooly ( excellently played to obnoxious perfection by Alexander Brickel ) unwittingly befriends a diabolically clever murderous maniac ( an exceptionally expressive mute pantomime portrayal by Joshua Annex ) who's dressed up as the Devil . Video game addict Douglas thinks the dangerous lunatic is just like Lucifer from his favorite game , so he decides to become Satan's Little Helper and assist the madman as he terrorizes a suburban community on Halloween . Lieberman has a wonderfully warped ball with the deliciously dark and depraved premise , using the nifty plot to take stinging satiric potshots at such relevant topics as religion , exceedingly violent video games , and how said video games can cause kids who avidly play them to become indifferent to the severity of real-life violence and brutality . The acting is uniformly up to par , with especially praiseworthy work by Amanda Plummer as Douglas ' wacky mom and the ravishingly gorgeous blonde hottie supreme Katheryn Winnick as Douglas ' sassy'n'sexy older sister . Better still , Lieberman further enhances the picture with his patented funky oddball ( and weirdly amusing ) touches : there's a strikingly abundant amount of incestuous lesbian innuendo to be found in the relationship between Plummer and Winnick ( Plummer at one point gleefully smacks Winnick on the butt ! ) , the Satan man kills a cat and writes " Boo " on a wall with the slain kitty's blood , Douglas and the Satan man merrily mow down people in a grocery store parking lot with a shopping cart ( said hapless individuals include a pregnant lady and an old blind dude ) , the Satan man later on in the movie disguises himself as Jesus ( which enables Winnick to say the following fantastic line : " Jesus is Satan " ) , and one guy at a costume party is dressed up as the wormface character from " Squirm . " Dejan Georgevich's slick cinematography and David Horowitz's spare , yet effectively spooky score are both solid and impressive . Joyfully sick , twisted and of course quite amoral , this baby overall delivers a handy helping of delectably deranged tongue-in-cheek fun for aficionados of deviant fright film cinema .
Five teenage snowboarders - - mature , composed , take-charge Jannicke ( superbly played by Ingrid Bolso Berdal ) , nice guy Eirik ( a fine performance by Thomas Alf Larsen ) , jocular Morten Tobias ( a wonderfully engaging portrayal by Rolf Kristian Larsen ) , amorous Mikal ( a solid turn by Endre Martin Midtstigen ) , and Mikal's sweet , sexy girlfriend Ingunn ( the fetching Viktoria Winge ) - - are forced to spend the night in a remote abandoned ski lodge after Morten has an accident and breaks his leg . However , there's a deadly and ferocious lunatic ( hulking behemoth Rune Melby ) residing in said lodge who naturally doesn't take kindly to any interlopers on his property . Director Roar Uthaug , working from a familiar , but serviceable script by Thomas Moldestad , makes expert and inspired use of the desolate wintry setting ; both the dingy rundown motel and bleak snowy mountainside landscape evoke a very vivid and palpable sense of dread , isolation , and vulnerability . Moreover , Uthoag takes his time to establish the premise and the genuinely likable main characters before delivering the expected gut-wrenching thrills and brutal violence . While the violence featured herein isn't that graphic or gruesome , it still manages to pack quite a wallop ( the protracted murder of Ingunn is especially strong and upsetting ) . What gives this film an extra edge over the usual slice'n'dice fare is its welcome emphasis on creating a powerfully spooky and unsettling tone ( the lodge registers as an extremely creepy and claustrophobic place ) and admirable lack of any dumb silly humor to diminish the severity of the stark and unflinching horror . The last third of this movie is truly tense , gripping and harrowing stuff that culminates in a haunting and startling climax ( the killer even gets a poignant back story ) . Daniel Voldheim's striking cinematography uses both washed-out colors and shadowy lighting well , plus offers several breathtaking panoramic shots of the vast mountains . Magnus Beite's shivery score likewise hits the shuddery spot . Highly recommended .
In a grim totalitarian near future married couples are allowed to have only one kid . John Brennick ( a solid and engaging performance by Christopher Lambert ) and his pregnant wife Karen ( well played by the fetching Loryn Locklin ) get arrested for trying to have a second child . They are both sent to a brutal subterranean maximum security penitentiary run by the cruel Prison Doctor Poe ( a splendidly wicked Kurtwood Smith ) . Of course , John plans to escape and take Karen with him . Director Stuart Gordon relates the absorbing story at a brisk pace , does an expert job of maintaining a tough , gritty tone throughout , and stages the thrilling action scenes with rip-roaring verve ( the climactic jailbreak sequence in particular is quite tense and stirring ) . The uniformly ace acting from a tip-top cast qualifies as another significant asset : Lambert and Locklin make for sympathetic leads , Smith excels in one of his customary bad guy roles , plus there are stellar supporting performances by Jeffrey Combs as flaky , bespectacled computer whiz D-Day , Lincoln Kilpatrick as wise trustee inmate Abraham , Tom Towles as mean roughhouse bully Stiggs , Vernon Wells as vicious top con Maddox , and Clifton Collins , Jr . as scrappy young punk Nino Gomez . David Eggby's fluid , polished cinematography , the nifty special effects , Frederic Talgorn's moody , rousing score , and a few dollops of grisly gore are all on the money effective and impressive . A very cool and satisfying science fiction film .
Slimy and deranged Fleet Street , London barber Sweeney Todd ( a gloriously ripe and juicy serving of prime eye-rolling Victorian theatrical ham by Tod Slaughter ) murders costumers for their money and valuables . His baker accomplice Mrs . Lovatt ( a fine performance by Stella Rho ) disposes of the bodies by turning them into meat pies . Complications ensue when Sweeney tries to get the lovely young Johanna Oakley ( the fetching Eve Lister ) to marry him , which doesn't meet with Mrs . Lovatt's approval . Director George King relates the engrossingly ghoulish story at a constant swift pace and does a nice job of evoking a flavorful 19th century period atmosphere . Moreover , the game cast sink their teeth into the macabre material with obvious relish : While Slaughter clearly dominates the show with his marvelously over-the-top portrayal of the demonic and depraved Sweeney , there are still bang-up supporting turns by John Singer as Sweeney's eager young apprentice Tobias Rag , Bruce Seton as likable working class sailor Mark Ingerstreet , D . J . Williams as Johanna's stern father Stephen Oakley , Davina Craig as cheery maid Nan , Jerry Verno as Mark's helpful friend Pearley , and Billy Holland as smarmy , blackmailing fence Mr . Parsons . Technically , this picture is a rinky-dink shambles , with rough cinematography , scratchy sound , primitive fade-outs , and a mushy string score , but Slaughter's delightfully devilish full-blooded histrionics and a most amusing sense of pitch-black gallows humor both ensure that this film is a great deal of wickedly enjoyable fun all the same .
The evil Dr . Wong ( essayed with lip-smacking sinister panache by Val Durand ) abducts prominent scientist Professor Edwin Millstone ( solid Wilfred Lucas ) . Blundering bank guards Monte Collins and Tom Kennedy search through Chinatown to find Dr . Wong and rescue the professor . Director Del Lord maintains a zippy pace throughout and pitches the wacky humor at an amusingly broad level . This cheerfully inane romp reaches its gut-busting peak in an alley way sequence in which our two nitwit protagonists meow like cats . Moreover , a monstrous apeman runs amok in the last reel and further adds to the infectiously goofy hilarity . Collins and Kennedy make for an amiably bumbling duo , with nice support from Phyllis Crane as Professor Millstone's fetching daughter . Both the jaunty , merry score and Benjamin H . Kline's crisp black and white cinematography are up to speed . Granted , this comic short sure ain't subtle or sophisticated in its buffoonish humor , but it's still a delightfully silly hoot just the same .
Stephen King's sole directorial effort " Maximum Overdrive " still qualifies as one of the single most horrible cinematic adaptations of his work to date . It's a total mess that's fatally undone by intolerably obnoxious nincompoop characters , sloppy plotting , and a simply dreadful sense of rancidly unamusing toilet bowl humor . Granted , the central premise - - a comet which brushes perilously close to the Earth's atmosphere somehow causes all the trucks to take on a murderously intelligent and malevolent sentient life of their own , with a bunch of demonic semis holding a motley assortment of people hostage in a besieged diner - - was promising , but King's messy , clumsy and horrendously diffuse ( mis ) direction and a narrative ridden with enough gaping plot holes to drive a Diesel through ' em failed to due said premise any justice . Fortunately , this second celluloid take on the short yarn " Trucks " rates as a markedly better and more effective picture : It's smart , absorbing and suspenseful , with sure , low-key direction , a tight , sharply focused script , a few nifty violent episodes ( a mailman getting gruesomely snuffed by a vicious tiny toy dump truck provides a blackly funny highlight ) , a refreshing paucity of both needless pretense and equally unnecessary razzle-dazzle , a commendably straightforward , matter-of-fact , down-to-earth sober tone , realistic sounding dialogue , a genuinely eerie atmosphere of total desolation ( the dry , dusty desert locations help immensely here ) , spare , unflashy cinematography , appealingly plain everyday country folks main characters , and a splendidly bleak surprise ending punching up the quality level to a finely high and well-sustained standard indeed . Timothy Busfield as an affable nice guy gas station proprietor and the fetching Brenda Bakke as the quick-thinking , level-headed heroine lead the uniformly solid no-name cast ( Jay Brazzeau is especially engaging as gentle , philosophical old hippie Jack ) . Moreover , this film mean business throughout and doesn't play fair , actually going as far as to bump off some of the more likable characters . It's this latter element of grim seriousness that makes all the difference , thus enabling a fantastic premise to acquire a reasonable semblance of plausibility which in turn puts this feature over as a good little fright flick .
Freaky 11-year-old Rosalie ( perfectly played to the eerie hilt by Rosalie Cole ) lives with her cranky widowed pop in the remote woods of the deep South in the 1930's . Strange , snotty and friendless , Rosalie has a most unsettling tendency to hang out in the local misty cemetery . Moreover , the creepy killer kid possesses psychic abilities that enable her to make objects move and a scarecrow come to murderous life . Worse yet , the evil child's late mother was an institutionalized lunatic and the deadly little darling can even resurrect the dead ( the scene where a snoopy old lady neighbor has her face gruesomely torn off by a zombie is especially tense and scary ) . When Rosalie's sweet governess Alicianne ( a personable performance by the very pretty and appealing Laurel Barnett ) discovers what's going on , both her and Rosalie's more sensible older brother Len ( a likable turn by Richard Hanners ) find themselves in considerable jeopardy . This culminates in a truly horrific and nerve-wracking climax where the two hole up in a ratty old tool shed that's attacked by Rosalie's supremely unnerving , rot-faced , dirt-covered shambling zombie pals . Capably directed by Robert Voskanian , this effectively spare'n'spooky low-budget rural shocker is a handy dandy combo blend of " The Bad Seed , " " Carrie , " and " Night of the Living Dead . " It works remarkably well thanks to a strong brooding gloom-doom rustic Southern atmosphere , some really unusual and imaginative cinematography ( the occasional use of off-kilter tilted camera angles is particularly good at creating and sustaining a genuinely disturbing nightmarish mood ) , a vividly rendered period setting , a superbly wonky , dissonant and discomfiting droning synthesizer score , solid and credible acting from a game no-name cast , the wonderfully ugly and upsetting zombie make-up ( the hideous undead ghouls look like they lurched off the set of a Lucio Fulci film ) , and a nice sprinkling of ghastly gore . Odd , intriguing and often frightening , this baby is well worth checking out .
Noble Viking warrior Rurik ( a strong and credible portrayal by Cameron Mitchell ) vows to protect the fiery Karin ( well played by the lovely Lisa Wagner ) and her spunky son Moki ( the charming Louis Polletin ) from the vile clutches of the savage Hagen ( a perfectly hateful Frank Ross ) and his army of nasty brutes . Director / co-writer Mario Bava takes a welcome break from his usual horror fare to deliver a surprisingly complex and low-key , but still occasionally exciting period action drama that's essentially a thoughtful and inspired variant on the classic Western " Shane . " Bava relates the absorbing story about revenge , betrayal and loyalty at a steady pace and stages the down'n'dirty fight scenes with considerable brio ( a protracted confrontation between Rurik and Hagen in a tavern rates as a definite thrilling highlight ) . Antonio Rinaldi's breathtaking widescreen cinematography takes full advantage of the beautiful seaside scenery . Marcello Giombini's robust , rousing score likewise does the trick . The cast all give sound performances : Mitchell excels in one of his best roles , with sturdy support from Wagner , Ross , and Jack Stuart as Karin's gallant husband Harald . Best of all , the main characters are refreshingly complicated and genuinely engaging . A fun film .
Cocky , blustery , bored stiff country boy Bobby ( swaggering Bill Adler ) drives his souped-up van to Los Angeles in search of kicks and competition . Bobby falls a over teakettle in love with assertive , self-assured rival lady driver Moon ( adorable ' 74 " Playboy " Playmate of the Year Cynthia Wood ) and befriends hip , brawny greaser Chooch ( hulking David Hayward ) , Chooch's insatiable nympho carhop main squeeze Wanda ( cuddly , curly-haired perennial 70's B-movie cutie starlet Tara Strohmeier of " Hollywood Boulevard " and " The Kentucky Fried Movie " ) , wide-eyed naif Greg ( boyishly affable Dennis Bowen ) , and Greg's foxy gal pal Camille ( lovely brunette knockout Melissa Prophet ) . William ( " The Incredible Melting Man " ) Sachs ' airy , aimless , virtually plot-less episodic script follows the sextet's silly misadventures as they ride roller coasters at the amusement park , cruise the strip , disco dance to flickering strobe lights at the local clubs , play pinball at the arcade , race their mean machines , and fall in love under the twinkling California stars . Sach's throwaway direction lets the rickety narrative ramble in enjoyably ramshackle fashion , neatly capturing a righteously funky lowdown cool tone , offering up a highly satisfying plenitude of bare female flesh and simulated soft-core sex , and punctuating the sub - " American Graffiti " antics with frequent dashes of sophomoric humor . Uptight killjoy cop Al Zass ( balding dork Dana Gladstone ) winds up handcuffed to his police car on a sweltering hot beach . A busty babe flashes her breasts at the fuzz . A mysterious leather-clad motorcycle mama ( statuesque eyeful Di Ann Monaco ) picks up Greg so she can have sex with him . A grunting pig runs amok on Malibu beach . Ken Mansfield and Ron Wright's catchy humming score pulsates to a throbbing disco beat . Joseph Mangine's bright , shiny , neon-reflecting cinematography gives the groovy after hours action a glittering nighttime glow . Sure , this likeably brainless Crown International Pictures drive-in piffle never really goes anywhere , but it provides a good deal of oddly pleasing dumb fun just the same .
Sensible , independent , down-to-earth young single woman Meg ( the reasonably pretty , but rather plain and refreshingly unglamorous redhead Heather Bolton ) purchases a used Jaguar Mark IV automobile that's haunted by the unrestful spirit ( expressively played to eerily mute perfection by the lovely Perry Piercy ) of the previous owner who was murdered in it . A mysterious man ( handsome , quietly menacing David Letch ) who might be the killer begins to stalk Meg . Capably directed in an effectively clean , spare , very low-key and no-frills style by Gaylene Preston , carefully scripted by Preston , Geoff Murphy and Graeme Tetley , nicely shot by Thom Burstyn and further graced with a beautifully classy and elegant orchestral score by Jonathan Crayford , this pleasingly subtle and understated supernatural horror mystery thriller weaves a highly spooky and unnerving spell on the viewer , slowly unraveling its tricky story at an admirably stately and unhurried pace while also neatly managing to avoid a standard cut'n'dried narrative trajectory . Furthermore , Preston gives the fantastic premise a semblance of believability by grounding said far-fetched tale in a plausibly banal and unremarkable evocation of grindingly drab and mundane day-to-day reality . With her spunky persona and attractively dumpy looks , Bolton makes for an extremely credible and appealing everywoman in distress . The conclusion is a genuinely harrowing white-knuckle nail-biter . A real sleeper .
This solid 70's end-of-the-world made-for-TV picture has a few striking similarities to William Girdler's " Day of the Animals . " Like that sturdy nature-gone-amok killer animal flick this feature amounts to a very effective and genuinely eerie effort . Stalwart , resolute father Peter Graves , his bookish chip off the old block science nerd son George O ' Hanlon , Jr . , and antsy daughter Kathleen Quinlan are camping in the High Sierras when a solar flair explosion occurs . The explosion wipes out most of mankind , leaving only a scattered minute handful of people left . Graves and his kids make a perilous trek to Malibu , California . They pick up dazed , shell-shocked , grief-stricken mother Verna Bloom and gutsy little boy Michael James Wixted , have their car stolen by a panicky guy , and fend off packs of vicious wild dogs along the way . John Llewellyn ( " The Night Stalker " ) Moxey's spare , no-frills direction lets the starkly plotted story unfold in a creepily gradual and unforced manner , eschewing any potentially credibility-killing flashy pyrotechnics in favor of a lean , stripped-down style that deftly creates and sustains a certain gritty plausibility . This in turn gives the film a quietly unsettling power that remains taut and absorbing to the very end . The convincing , laudably restrained performances by a fine cast , the tightly wound script by John Lewis ( " The Mechanic " ) Carlino and Sandor ( " Shark Kill " ) Stern , the plain , unadorned cinematography , the minimal , unobtrusive score , and an uncompromisingly downbeat ending that's capped off by a delicately optimistic conclusion all add considerable substance to this gently moving paean to the essential human need to survive and keep living .
Johnny Randall ( a solid Robert Reed ; the father on " The Brady Bunch " ) , Betty Scott ( tasty blonde June Kenney ) , Peter Garwood ( the likable Gene Perrson ) , and Jeanne Perry ( fetching brunette Joan Lora ) are four teenagers who find themselves trapped on a remote secluded and uncharted tropical island run by the evil Dr . Albert Balleau ( essayed with deliciously slimy relish by Wilton Graff ) , a real sadist who gets his sick kicks out of ruthlessly hunting humans in the jungle with a crossbow . Written , directed and produced with a modicum of competence by Ralph Brooke , this flick gets off to a rather slow and talky start , but eventually culminates in a tense , gripping and surprisingly violent last third . Richard Cunha's rough , grainy , yet fairly polished cinematography and the booming'n'bombastic stock film library score are both up to speed . Veteran character actress Lilyan Chauvin ( Mother Superior in the seasonal slasher classic " Silent Night , Deadly Night " ) pops up as Balleau's faithless wife Sandra . The scene where one of Belleau's pernicious flunkies gets dunked into a vat of acid rates as a definite gruesome highlight . Granted , this scrappy little B-flick quickie sure ain't no cinematic gem , but it's still much better and more enjoyable than its undeservedly lousy reputation would suggest .
Santa Claus ( robustly voiced by the ever-exuberant Mickey Rooney ) gets a bad cold and decides to take a year off . Ms . Claus ( given an endearingly warm voice by Shirley Booth ) sends bumbling elves Jingle Bells and Jangle Bells along with baby reindeer Vixen to go out into the world to find plenty of holiday cheer in order to persuade Santa to go ahead with his usual routine . Meanwhile , the constantly feuding Miser Brothers further muck things up . This delightful Noel family musical television program from Jules Bass and Arthur Rankin , Jr . , the same fine folks who gave us such sparkling gems as " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " and " Frosty the Snowman , " offers a winning mix of good-natured humor and several highly catchy songs . However , it's the marvelously campy antics of the Miser Brothers who make this show a prime piece of hilarious entertainment : George S . Irving is deliciously manic as the cantankerous overgrown brat Heat Miser while Dick Shawn is camp perfection as the smarmy hambone Snow Miser ; their scenes are a complete sidesplitting joy to watch and the jaunty burlesque songs they both heartily belt out are simply awesome . Rhoda Mann likewise impresses as the folksy matronly voice of Mother Nature . The funky stop-motion animation and the light , upbeat tone further enhance the overall merry charm of this lovely little beaut .
Unhappy and discontent suburban teen Bobby ( expertly played to the obnoxious hilt by Stephen White ) lives in abject misery in the Florida suburbs . He's relentlessly browbeaten by his overbearing stepfather ( a marvelously hateful Eldon Macham ) and equally nasty shamelessly flirtatious tease of an older step sister ( a perfectly bitchy Joyce Molloy ) . Fed up with all this abuse , Bobby runs away from home and winds up being savagely sodomized by a gang of greasy gay guys . The evil homosexuals leave Bobby clad solely in his underwear on the side of the road . Luckily for Bobby he's saved by a nearby Satanic cult . Attractive lady cult member Sherry ( the luscious Kathleen Archer ) gets the hots for Bobby , but cult leader Simon ( superbly essayed with mucho suavely slimy aplomb by Robert C . Ray II ) thinks Bobby is too much of a weak , passive wimp to cut it as a worthy member of the cult . So Bobby escapes from the cult's dangerous clutches ( killing four guards in the process ) and exacts a harsh revenge on his stepfather , step sister and the foul gay goons who brutally raped him in order to prove he's got the right tough stuff to qualify as a soldier in Lucifer's army . " Satan's Children " is a sensationally sick , twisted and depraved doozy of a low-budget 70's drive-in horror flick . Writer / director Joe Wiezycki relates the deranged story in a tight , snappy , straightforward manner that ensures that there's never any dreary lulls to speak of . The stark , no-frills style of the picture , best epitomized by John " Mak " Makinen's plain , grainy photography and Ray Fletcher's odd , spare , droning score , adds an immediacy to the warped proceedings that's both skin-crawlingly creepy and strangely compelling in comparable measure . The final image in this film is very scary and disturbing , concluding things on a shockingly nihilistic note that the Devil himself would approve of . Those fine freaky folks at Something Weird Video offer this hardcore ferocious piece of deviant Southern-fried sleaze on an ideal DVD double bill with William Girdler's laughably lousy debut feature " Asylum of Satan . "
Someone is picking off members of the outlaw biker gang the Grave Diggers after one of their number witnesses the assassination of a politician at an outdoor rally in a public park . Straight-laced undercover cop Stone ( stiffly played by Ken Shorter ) infiltrates the club in order to protect them and find out who the killer is . Director / co-writer Sandy Harbutt astutely pegs the whole empowering feeling of doing your own thing , refusing to buckle under to the status quo , and the sense of pure unbeatable strength riding a mean machine with your closest mates gives you . Moreover , Harbutt shows the bikers in a positive and sympathetic light without ever exploiting or glamorizing them in the process . In fact , the strong bond of loyalty and camaraderie amongst the Grave Diggers is truly touching and heart-warming . The cast members who portray the Grave Diggers look , act and sound like the genuine gnarly article , with especially stand-out turns by Harbutt as tough , charismatic leader the Undertaker , Hugh Keays-Byrne as the scruffy , yet sensitive Toad , Vincent Gil as the crazed Dr . Death , Rebecca Gilling as the Undertaker's sassy moll Vanessa , James H . Bowles as the grubby Stinkfinger , Bindi Williams as the laid-back Captain Midnight , and Roger Ward as the rowdy Hooks . Helen Morse likewise does well as Stone's fetching , but long-suffering girlfriend Amanda . Only Shorter's bland acting as Stone leaves something to be desired . Graham Lind's gritty , but polished cinematography offers plenty of striking visuals : Toad tripping on acid in the park , an impressively massive biker funeral procession roaring down the highway , and the stunning climax in an empty cemetery . Billy Green's groovy hard-rocking score hits the funky-jammin ' bull's eye as well . But what makes this picture so special and resonant is that it has the pungent stench of gritty authenticity about it . So take the trip and check it out , mate .
A race of evil aliens ( they're actually giant cockroaches who inhibit the bodies of recently deceased folks ) call upon the ferocious three-headed dragon King Ghidorah and sharp-beaked bird beast Gigan ( he's got a huge buzzsaw in his belly ! ) to destroy us puny helpless humans so they can take over the planet . Luckily , the almighty Godzilla and his spike-backed gigantic porcupine pal Anguirus come to the rescue . The opening third of this creature feature romp is pretty slow , talky and rather tedious , but fortunately things start to seriously cook when the monsters engage in an incredibly lengthy , violent and vigorous anything-goes fight ( the definite highlight occurs when Anguirus runs its spikes repeatedly into King Ghidorah's torso ! ) . Moreover , the expected protracted mondo destructo city stomp sequence likewise totally hits the satisfying spot . Akira Ifukube's robust , rousing orchestral score constitutes as another substantial asset . Ditto Kiyoshi Hasegawa's crisp widescreen cinematography . The lovably rinky dink miniatures and hokey rubber monster suits possess their usual chintzy charm . The scenes where the behemoth beasts roar and rumble at each other prior to mixing it up with considerable go-for-it gusto are hysterically funny . Overall , this Godzilla outing provides a good deal of infectiously inane and outrageous fun .
Naive young lady Christine Delaplane ( a solid and sympathetic performance by the luscious Alisha Fontaine ) goes to New Orleans to find her future and winds up getting a job as a stripper at a local seedy dive . So far , so familiar . But the story takes a surprising and unexpected departure into more fresh and intriguing cinematic territory after Christine has a drink with some drug in it and flashes back to the past where she was one Gertrude " Trudy " Dix , a sweet virgin who worked at a fancy bordello run by classy and kindly madam Countess Willie Piazza ( finely played by Virginia Mayo ) in the early turn-of-the-century French Quarter . Although she's set to be auctioned off to any rich pervert who pays the highest price for her , Gertrude nonetheless falls in love with nice guy pianist Kid Ross ( the always excellent Bruce Davison ) . Director / co-writer Dennis Kane and co-writer Barney Cohen concoct a dandy yarn that makes the most out of a limited budget , soaks up plenty of deliciously tangy and colorful Big Easy atmosphere , offers a fascinatingly intricate juxtaposition of the past and present ( for example , every last cast member has dual roles in the picture ) , and even provides a touching ( if occasionally too mushy ) central love story between the two engaging protagonists . Of course , we also get the usual steamy soft-core sex and tasty female nudity , with a sizzling striptease in a giant wineglass rating as a definite erotic highlight . Adding some extra spice to an already tasty celluloid gumbo is a good dash of voodoo complete with snakes , pounding primitive drums , and frenzied tribal dancers . The supporting cast comes through with a bevy of exquisitely beautiful women : Lindsay Bloom as the bawdy Big Butt Annie , Laura Mischa Owens as the frosty Ice Box Josie , Ann Michelle as kinky , disloyal junkie Coke-Eyed Laura , and Becky Allen as the fiery Bricktop . Lance LeGault positively oozes smarm as evil lecher Tom , William Simms is properly nasty as brutal bar owner Aaron Harris , and Vernel Bagneris contributes an amiable portrayal of cocky legendary jazzman Jelly Roll Morton . The handsome cinematography by Jerry Kalegeratos makes pretty frequent use of dewy soft focus . Dick Hyman's flavorful score likewise hits the swinging soulful spot . Quirky , different and ambitious , this neat little sleeper is well worth a look .
Now , here's a truly offbeat , startling and incredibly thrilling genre-blending oddity : a dark , serious and surreal horror / fantasy / action / end-of-the-world apocalyptic work of astonishing visionary cinematic sweep and imagination that's at heart an oddball allegory on Flawed Good Vs . Alluring Evil . Two rival factions of supernatural beings which include witches , vampires and shapeshifters known collectively as the Others after years of nonstop fighting call a truce which lasts for several centuries . The good Others are called the Light and are members of the Night Watch . The bad Others are called the Darkness and are members of the Day Watch . Both police forces keep the other group in line . In the early 21st century the truce gets violently disrupted by the arrival of a special other who could possibly change the fate of the world . It's up to Night Watch cop Anton and his shapeshifting owl partner Olga to protect this special other from the nefarious clutches of Darkness . You got that ? Well , I'm not so sure I completely understand the story as it's told by director / co-screenwriter Timur Bekmambetov in a bracingly flashy and hyper-kinetic style . While the furious pace , stirring action set pieces , roaring rock score , gorgeous mind-blowing visuals , remarkably effective CGI effects , and rapid-fire editing ensure that this film's quite engrossing and exciting on a purely visceral level , both the pretty murky plot and the rather thin characters get a little lost amidst all the wild and frantic fireworks . Still , there's more than enough sheer headlong energy , eyeblistering bizarre imagery , insanely creative weirdness ( people walking through walls , two opposing generals freezing their armies in time in mid-battle , a dangerous alternate dimension referred to as the Gloom , and so on ) , and go-for-it incendiary bravura style to make this baby a real blast to watch .
Lovely and sweet young Susan Farrell ( a respectable performance by deliciously voluptuous blonde bombshell Bobbie Bresee ) suffers from an especially nasty family curse : she gets possessed by the spirit of an evil and lethal , yet enticing distaff demonic spirit that takes over the first born daughters of every line in her family . Pretty soon Susan just ain't acting like herself anymore ; she starts seducing and murdering various guys . It's up to concerned psychiatrist Dr . Simon Andrews ( nicely played by Norman Burton ) to save Susan's soul before it's too late . Director Michael Dugan does a sound job of creating and maintaining a flesh-crawling ooga-booga atmosphere , pours on a handy helping of juicy gore ( the definite splatter highlight occurs when Susan levitates a guy and sends the man falling to his death from a three story balcony onto a glass table ) , tosses in several moments of hilariously campy humor , and has the luscious Ms . Bresee bare her insanely hot body at pleasingly regular intervals . The game cast do their best with the rather silly material : the ever-cool Marjoe Gortner as Susan's loving , but busy husband Oliver , Laura Hippe as Susan's worried Aunt Cora Nomed , and Sheri Mann as helpful demonic possession expert Dr . Roni Logan . LaWanda Page ( Aunt Esther on " Sanford and Son " ) provides gut-busting lowbrow comic relief as superstitious black maid Elsie . Maurice Sherbanee likewise amuses as creepy , lecherous Mexican gardener Ben . Robert Barich's polished cinematography makes occasional inspired use of a fluid gliding Steadicam . Jaime Mendoza-Nava's spooky'n'moody score does the shuddery trick . John Carl Buechler comes through with a marvelously grotesque make-up design for the hideously ugly female demon ; the foul beast's drooling , fanged , snarling breasts are particularly funky and memorable . Granted , this flick certainly isn't a subtle and sophisticated work of cinematic art , but it does overall pass muster as a highly entertaining piece of cheerfully cheesy trash .
Any film which toplines a teenage bulimic drug addict prostitute criminal sociopath who when she isn't indulging in scarf'n'barf eating binges habitually robs her johns so she can eke out a sordidly meager existence as its anti-heroine is unarguably pushing the limits of good taste and restraint to the breaking point . Well , this shockingly base and savage exploitation stunner not only graphically depicts various acts of all-out depravity in unsparingly explicit detail , but also wallows in a festering sinkhole of unremittingly foul no-holds-barred cinematic scuzziness with a certain lip-smacking fiendish glee . When underage hooker White Girl ( the luscious Natasha Lyonne ) meets deranged lesbian sexual psychopath serial killer Cyclona ( galvanizing spitfire Maria Celedonio ) in a brutal juvenile detention center , it's clear right from the start that they are a match made in bad girl hell . Pretty soon the dangerously nutso twosome escape and go on the lam , embarking on a mondo berserko crime spree as they travel cross country to Tijuana , Mexico , where they believe both sanctuary and possible redemption awaits them in the form of demented pedophile cannibal transvestite kiddie-porn making nun ( ! ) Sister Gomez ( an amazingly wacked portrayal by " Buffalo ' 66 " auteur Vincent Gallo ) . Powered along by a pair of laudably fearless , anything-goes , let-it-all-hang-out dynamic and uninhibited performances by Lyonne and Celedonio , loaded to the grimy gills with nonstop seedy thrills , strikingly ferocious violence , and carnal perversions of every conceivable stripe , and rounding things off with a gruesomely over-the-top nasty conclusion that's sure to knock the air out of your lungs , this thoroughly warped and electrifying crime / chase / chicks-in-chains sleaze film take on the classic Grimm Brothers fairytale " Hansel and Gretel " will either delight you with its impressively shameless and aggressive assault-on-your-senses agenda or offend you to the ninth degree for the very same reason . Before you ask precisely which side of the fence I'm on with this particular flick , let me state for the record that any picture which features nifty cameos by John Landis as a hard-nosed judge , David Alan Grier as a scummy sex-crazed shyster lawyer , and " Drugstore Cowboy " ' s Max Perlich as a slacker drunk , numerous acts of vicious murder , masturbation , full-frontal shower room nudity , projectile puking by the literal gallon , necrophilia , spray paint-huffing , and a funky , rollicking trashy score that's in equal parts digging rap and ripping surf-rock will always get my vote .
This surprisingly strong semi-sequel to the outstanding " Village of the Damned " centers on six highly advanced mutant kids with remarkably sophisticated intellects and acute psychic abilities from all over the globe . They all band together in London at an old rundown and abandoned church seeking refuge from a scared and uncomprehending adult world that wants to destroy them . A very tense and compelling stand-off ensues , with both the kids and the adults alike trying to figure out the proper course of action for this highly unusual and potentially dangerous situation . This film benefits from the same substantial strengths that graced the original : low-key , unflashy direction that wisely downplays special effects in favor of focusing more on the absorbing story and exceptionally well-drawn characters , uniformly fine acting from an excellent cast ( the kid actors in particular are all terrific while Ian Hendry and Alan Badel are superb as the gay couple protagonists ; this latter element is handled with refreshing taste and subtlety ) , a smart and thoughtful script , beautifully crisp black and white photography , a pleasingly eerie and ambiguous tone , and a stimulating subtext about how people automatically feel threatened by and hence want to kill anything they can't easily understand . The uncompromisingly bleak and tragic ending is genuinely heartbreaking . Moreover , the political aspects of the story give the movie an extra stinging edge and the theme of prejudice is effectively addressed with genuinely poignant and provocative results . Overall , this picture is one of those rare glorious instances where a follow-up is every bit as comparable in top-notch quality to the sterling original .
The time : a dystopian near future where right-wing reactionary conservatism reigns supreme . A creaky , just barely together , ready for the scrapyard rattletrap World War II B-52 bomber called Uncle Slam , which has been airborne since the Vietnam war , is still doing its nutty mind-melting " psy-ops " mission , jamming local boob tube airwaves with a jarringly disruptive and disrespectful pirate program named S & M TV ( " You're watching S & M TV whether you like it or not ! " ) that's specifically designed to shock stuffy Middle American folks out of their banal , impassive , unthinking conformist complacency . Commanded by an obsessive loony outlaw captain ( exuberantly played by that perennial anti-establishment fruitcake Dennis Hopper , still crazy and long-haired after all these years ) and crewed by a motley bunch of zany dippy hippie drop-out misfits - - screwy electronics whiz " Doc " Tesla ( merry , puckish imp Michael J . Pollard at his goony best ) , cranky cook / mechanic Ben ( Al Matthews ) , sickly , throaty-voiced cripple Ace ( Eugene Lipinski ) , rabbity co-pilot Jerry ( William Armstrong ) , smooth womanizing reporter Sam ( Derek Homby ) and libidinous French lecher Claude ( James Aubrey ) - - the seriously burnt-out , but loyal and dedicated boys can't land until they do their patriotic duty by successfully foiling the presidential campaign of the insipidly insidious Willa Westinghouse , an uptight lady upholder of oppressive religious right beliefs who'll start World War III if she gets voted into the Whitehouse . Directed in loopy , ramshackle , to - heck - with - subtlety - and - sophistication sledgehammer style by Maurice Phillips , given an additional invigorating shot of sugar rush-like adrenaline and vitality by the jivey , profane slang-slinging dialogue ( " Honk if you're heavy ! " ) , manic pacing , John Metcalfe's sprinting , careening , madly darting hyperactive cinematography , a spectacular blaring rock score ( Jimi Hendrix , Joan Jett and the Blackhearts , Derek and the Dominoes , the Kinks , Gene Pitney , Alice Cooper ) , an infectiously giddy and rambunctious sense of joyfully irreverent humor , a very radical left-wing revolutionary down - with - the - crummy - normal - system mentality , and vibrant performances from an enthusiastic cast , this wildly idiosyncratic sci-fi farce coasts on such a deliriously wired and cooking wave of pure anarchic energy that its retro-60's satiric crudity and sloppy cinematic technique take on an irresistibly deranged and weirdly enrapturing luster . Scott Roberts ' rude , loosely structured all-over-the-sardonic map script takes hilariously broad comedic volleys at such deserving targets as phony smiley greedy televangelists , venal gung-ho army warmongers , repressive right-wing conservative political killjoys , rigidly set in their ways toe-the-line straight-arrow stiffs , smug born-again Christian drips , basically anything square and conventional in general . Sure , this film is a clunky , disjointed , frequently silly and out of control mess of a movie , but there's a wonderfully brash , nose-thumbing , middle-digit-firmly-upraised raspberry to the Man attitude presented here in full freaky force which makes this beautifully berserk baby one pleasurably far-out funky'n'funny gas to watch .
A motley quintet of thieves and their two hostages are forced to land their plane in a remote rural cornfield when one of their number bails out with the three and a half million in hot loot they just stole from an army payroll . Unfortunately for our five hoods and two hostages said cornfield is the dangerous domain of a ferocious trio of malevolent living scarecrows . Director / editor / co-writer / co-producer William Wesley expertly crafts one dandy doozy of a first-rate flesh-crawling fearfest : the constant headlong snappy pace , nicely drawn characters , Terry Plumeri's ominous shuddery score , enthusiastic , if rather erratic acting from a game no-name cast ( Ted Vernon is especially good as the most humane and likable of the criminals ) , the brilliantly spare and oblique script ( having no thorough explanation ever provided about the exact origins of the scarecrows is an inspired stroke of pure genius ) , Peter Deming's stark , shadowy cinematography , a generous amount of grisly gore , a potent theme about the perils of greed , the tight narrative told in real time ( the film is only 83 taut minutes long ) , the scary murderous monster scarecrows , and the profoundly creepy mood are all smack dead on-target . However , this movie's single most strong and spine-tingling asset is the masterful way Wesley captures and conveys the genuinely eerie , unnerving , frightening and surrealistic anything-can-happen common-logic-be-damned hair-raising ooga booga atmosphere of a particularly vivid and hellish nightmare . A splendidly spooky little zombie horror variant .
A hilariously wild'n'raunchy handy dandy combo of both " let's put on a show " 30's vaudeville musical comedy revues and then fashionable cheesy , one note , tongue-in-cheek silly gimmick porno movies ( anyone else remember the porno musical version of " Alice in Wonderland " ? ) . Barely released in theaters by Paramount , this delightfully lowbrow low-budget howler has deservedly acquired a sizable cult following . Struggling studio head Stephen Nathan needs a new hook to snag audiences for the asinine porno flicks he makes his fortune off of . So he comes up with the bright idea to do the first hardcore feature with singing and dancing . Of course , there are several glitches : the cheapskate financiers want the entire picture shoot in a mere two weeks or they will take the studio away from Nathan , director John Smithee ( an obvious pun on legendary pseudonymous director Allen Smithee ) turns out to be a childish , immature , totally wet-behind-the-ears nitwit , and catty , venomous , egocentric prima donna porn star Mary La Rue keeps trying to seduce Nathan and makes life a living hell for everyone else on the set . Gleefully dirty-minded without ever becoming too sordid , " The First Nudie Musical " manages to be quite likable , expectedly uproarious , and strangely endearing despite the nonstop onslaught of often profane dialogue , simulated sex and full-frontal nudity . The direction by Mark Haggard and Bruce Kimmel nicely maintains a light , airy and playfully good-natured tone throughout . The performances hit just the right note of cutesy burlesque hamminess , with especially winning turns from Nathan , Cindy Williams ( a short step away from hitting the big time on the popular long-running sitcom " Laverne and Shirley " ) as Nathan's loyal , but sarcastic secretary , an almost unbearably funny Kimmel ( who not only co-directed and co-wrote the witty script , but also penned all the songs and lyrics ) as the feckless Smithee , the adorable Leslie Ackerman as a naive , virginal ingnue , the beauteous Alexandra Morgan as La Rue , " Soap ' ' s Diana Canova as a lusty , vavavoomish Latin singer , Frank Doubleday ( the scary dude who shoots the little girl in " Assault on Precinct 13 " ) as Canova's insecure , switchblade-wielding leather-clad punk biker boyfriend , " Mantis in Lace " ' s Susan Stewart as no-talent bleach blonde starlet Joy Ful , Alan Abelew as a stuck-up would-be lady's man , and Hy Pyke ( the unforgettably creepy bus driver in " Lemora - A Child's Tale of the Supernatural " ) as a greedy , cigar-puffing sleazebag producer . The wonderfully ribald'n'ridiculous songs smoke in no uncertain terms ( the incredible " Dancing Dildos " number in particular is absolutely sidesplitting ) . Ron Howard makes a quick cameo during the audition sequence and Annette O'Toole supplied Ackerman's singing voice . A tremendously amusing and totally off-the-wall wacky hoot that's not to be missed .
Something is seriously amiss at a fancy French boarding school that's run with the proverbial iron fist by strict head mistress Madame Fourneau ( splendidly played to the steely hilt by Lili Palmer ) . Several of the catty , bitchy , backbiting , high-strung problem girl students have mysteriously disappeared . Did they run away ? Or have they been killed by some crazed psycho ? Writer / director Narciso Ibanez Serrador does an outstanding job of creating and sustaining a potently eerie and brooding atmosphere that practically seethes with pent-up carnal longings and deadly menace . Moreover , Serrador stages the stunningly stylized murder set pieces with remarkable breathtaking skill and flair . Kudos are in order for the first-rate acting from a uniformly tip-top cast : Palmer excels as a most austere and formidable battle ax , the adorable Cristina Galbo makes for a highly charming and fetching heroine as the sweet innocent Theresa , John Moulder-Brown likewise impresses as Fourneau's neurotic peeping tom son Luis , and ubiquitous character actor Victor Israel has a nice , yet small part as creepy handyman Brechard . Manuel Berenguer's fluid , polished widescreen cinematography gives the picture a gorgeously glossy look . Waldo de los Rios ' exquisitely lush'n'lovely orchestral score hits the bull's eye as well . Better still , there's a severely warped undercurrent of startling sexual perversity that runs the gamut from lesbianism to voyeurism to even incest . The socko sicko surprise ending packs a very strong and lingering gut punch . This spooky and intriguing precursor to both Bob Clark's " Black Christmas " and Dario Argento's " Suspiria " rates as absolutely essential viewing for hardcore aficionados of supremely skin-crawling fright fare .
I've been a huge fan of Tim Thomerson every since he portrayed tough-as-nails detective Jack Deth in " Trancers . " He's one of my all-time favorite character actors who's appeared in such excellent movies as " Uncommon Valor , " " Near Dark , " " Nemesis , " and " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas . " He usually plays laconic rough'n'tumble macho guys or goofy tongue-in-cheek parts , but Tim really shows his substantial dramatic range here as shameless hack stand-up comedian Billy Diamond , who steals whole bits and pieces of his act from other comics ' routines . One fateful day Diamond gets fatally shot by a struggling comic he stole a gag from . He winds up in a particularly ironic kind of hell in which he's forced to talk about the worst things that happened in his life while an audience laughs uproariously at his abject pain and misery . Thomerson was a stand-up comedian prior to embarking on his acting career . He brings a real pathos and conviction to the role of the smarmy Diamond that's both surprising and impressive . His acting in this terrific episode rates highly as some of the best he's ever done and offers proof positive that Tim Thomerson is one tremendously talented and versatile actor who doesn't get the attention and accolades he deserves as often as he should .
Wacko in the woods body count splatter slaughterfests became all the rage in the early 80's after " Friday the 13th " hit it big at the almighty box office . This staggeringly sloppy'n'slipshod shot-in-Utah no-budget atrocity could very well be the most unbelievably inept and unintentionally sidesplitting entry in this frequently pretty pathetic horror sub-genre . A grimy , husky , deranged , murderously misanthropic survivalist mountain man maniac nastily butchers assorted hideously obnoxious and unappealing chowderheads who unwisely venture into his lethal section of the forest . A nerdy ornithologist has his arm yanked out of its socket ; hilariously fake-looking blood squirts out of the even more hilariously phony stump . A fat jerk gets tossed off a cliff so he can be turned into a mushy pulp when he lands on the jagged rocks below . The fat jerk's equally rotund whiny mom likewise buys it in a similarly gruesome fashion . A jarringly ugly middle-aged couple who are trying to do just what you think in their RV have their would-be sexual encounter rudely disrupted by Mr . Nutso . A painter erupts with a virtual geyser of the red sauce when she's repeatedly stabbed by our sanguinary sicko . A backwoodsman accidentally impales a luckless hick on a tree branch and tries to make amends by blubbering " I'm sorry ! " three times in a row . Four insufferably irritating backpackers gripe , moan , bicker and generally get on each other's nerves while aimlessly ambling through the woods . A girl who stumbles into the killer's lair eats some machete . Two folks dozing in their sleeping bags are savagely offed . In arguably the most mean-spirited scene a helpless cripple in a wheelchair gets decapitated ! Meanwhile a plodding , obscenely oafish and obese hillbilly sheriff investigates various disappearances to no avail . The slackly plotted narrative meanders from gory kill scene to gory kill scene sans reason or rhythm . The unlistenably abominable score alternates between eardrum-rupturing high-pitched synthesizer blaring and st-kickin ' , banjo-pluckin ' , dung-a-dung-dung hayseed bluegrass music . The shaky 16 mm cinematography features lots of nauseating whiplash pans and unsteady hand-held camera-work . The dreadful post-sync sound makes the whole shoddy shebang seem like a poorly dubbed foreign flick . The rambling direction suffers from a crucial lack of both focus and finesse . The acting by the no-name rank amateur cast is absolutely abysmal . None of the astonishingly irksome characters are even remotely likable . The gore effects are uproariously cheesy and unconvincing . And the incredibly asinine ending credits theme song concludes the marvelously messed-up merriment on a properly pitiful note .
Bitter ex-cop Tim Foster ( expertly played with consummate steely resolve by Preston Foster ) is still fuming about his forced early retirement , so he decides to get his revenge by devising a fiendishly clever perfect caper . Foster forces three despicable low-life hoodlums - - jittery compulsive gambler Pete Harris ( lanky Jack Elam ) , sleazy womanizing heel Tony Romano ( snaky Lee Van Cleef ) and surly gum-chewing brute Boyd Kane ( burly Neville Brand ) - - to pull off a bold $1 , 200 , 000 bank heist . Foster cruelly sets up rugged , resourceful and resilient innocent ex-con Joe Rolfe ( a strong and sympathetic performance by John Payne ) as a fall guy in a wicked ploy to buy time to successfully escape the country with the hot loot . After he gets sprung from jail due to lack of evidence , Joe puts himself in considerable jeopardy by obsessively tracking down Foster and his pernicious flunkies in order to clear his name . Phil Karlson's sharp , assured and stylish direction , working from a smart , complex and absorbing script by George Bruce and Harry Essex , further aided by George E . Diskant's stark , shadowy black and white photography and Paul Santell's brooding , moody , rousing score , skillfully crafts a diabolically arresting and hard-boiled little nugget of a gritty crime noir thriller : the brisk pace never lets up for a minute , the nerve-wracking suspense is well-maintained from start to finish , the tone is suitably grim and serious , and the tense , bleak , seedy and sinister atmosphere seethes with danger and corruption . The film's principal winning hand is the truly inspired and on the money casting of resolutely scrappy and unglamorous character actors Elam , Brand and Van Cleef as three of the foulest , meanest , ugliest and most menacing no-account criminal scum to ever scowl , growl and glower their way across the screen ; Brand and Van Cleef in particular make for a fabulously nasty and odious pair of scary customers . Colleen Gray adds substantial spunky charm and vigor as a feisty aspiring lady lawyer who befriends Joe . Slightly marred by a rather sappy conclusion , " Kansas City Confidential " overall still rates highly as the authentic gnarly noir article .
Without a doubt one of the best refreshingly atypical Bigfoot documentaries to ever grace celluloid , this winningly whimsical , but still respectful and illuminating made-for-Canadian TV 70 minute feature breaks from the standard mold by not focusing solely on Sasquatch . Instead , director / co-screenwriter Peter von Puttkamer offers a wryly amusing and highly entertaining profile on four fellows who've dedicated their lives to the study , capture and documentation of the legendary apeman's existence . Affectionately dubbed " The Four Horsemen of Sasquatchery , " the motley quartet of elderly gents are : Studiously academic physical anthropologist Grover Krantz , suave Irish adventurer Peter Byrne , shy , soft-spoken outdoorsman Peter Green , and crotchety Swiss writer Rene Dahinden . Puttkamer's colorful portraits of these reigning Sasquatch experts offers a telling and enjoyable glimpse at the uniquely obsessive mindset of the dyed-in-the-wool Bigfoot fanatic . Krantz , who was initially a skeptic when he first became seriously involved with investigating Sasquatch and has been fiercely ridiculed for his firm belief in Bigfoot and deemed a pariah within the snobby scientific community which in turn has made him extremely hidebound , hardened and tenacious with the passage of time , qualifies as the most scholarly and professorial of Bigfoot buffs thanks to his strong theories concerning Mr . Over-sized Pawprint's prehistoric origins . The immaculately cultured , composed and extroverted bon vivant Byrne rates as the Errol Flynn of the bunch , while the quiet and reserved Green comes across as the average garden variety everyman who somehow got tangled up in some incredibly nutty business-type of affable guy of the group . And then there's the lovably cantankerous Dahinden , whose salty tongue , easily set off temper , and zero tolerance for snot-nosed amateurs and stuffy bookworm facts single him out as the king crabby curmudgeon of Sasquatch trackers ( Dahinden is further blessed with an impish sense of humor , as proved by a TV commercial he did for Kokanee beer featuring Bigfoot . Kokanee did several other ads with Bigfoot in ' em . And , yes Virginia , there's indeed a brew called Bigfoot Beer ! ) . Of course , these geriatric men are all former close friends turned bitter adversaries who constantly argue over such pressing issues as whether Bigfoot is a man or an ape , Bigfoot's debatable status as the possible missing link , and whether it's preferable to capture a Sasquatch dead or alive . Graced with the terrific country-and-western novelty theme song " Bigfoot Lives " and choice clips from trashy two-bit Sasquatch exploitation pictures ( which include Bill Rebane's delectably cheesy " The Capture of Bigfoot " ! ) , this wonderful picture rates as a pleasingly quirky and frivolous addition to the usually gravely sober Bigfoot documentary branch of the Sasquatch cinema tree .
One of the more arrestingly off-beat " ALIEN " sci-fi / horror variants to materialize in the early to mid 80's , this compellingly uneasy combination of drearily conventional domestic drama and totally off-the-wall sci-fi / horror weirdness starts out fairly mundane , but eventually erupts into all-out credibility-be-damned jaw-dropping surrealism as its oddball plot unfolds . A man who was abducted by aliens returns home after a long absence and makes a faltering attempt at regaining his previous ordinary life with horrifically disastrous consequences for both himself and his family . Acting , direction and narrative coherence take a back seat to an alarming succession of increasingly daft , shocking and gloriously grotesque graphic set pieces : a luckless lady who's been brutally raped by a hideous extraterrestrial crab-like beast gives painful , life-taking birth to a fully grown man ( nasty ! ) in a truly gag-inducing scene , a half-human , half-alien guy causes a pay phone to melt after he touches it , comely French au pair girl and future James Bond movie starlet Maryam ( " The Living Daylights " ) d'Abo gets wrapped up in a cocoon that's located directly above the bathroom shower so she can be used as an incubator for alien eggs ( luckily the luscious Maryam gets to do two eye-popping and much-appreciated gratuitous nude scenes prior to meeting this ghastly fate ) , d'Abo's libidinous boyfriend winds up being mauled by a panther after being chased around the house by a dangerous animated toy tank ( yes , you read that correctly ) , and , in perhaps the film's single most stupendously strange sequence , a GI Joe doll gets blown up to normal man size so it can come to life and take out a snoopy old lady neighbor ( I'm honestly not making this crazy stuff up ) . Amid all this magnificently messed-up lunacy the movie's " you can't go back home " subtext somehow manages to acquire a certain cock-eyed poignancy that's in equal degrees oddly affecting and genuinely unnerving . Alas , this terrifically twisted and authentically outr treat was followed by a couple of dire , scarcely related by-the-numbers sequels which sadly lack the original's startlingly unpredictable free-form approach to telling a story .
At Camp Blackfoot a bunch of kids play a cruel prank on mean caretaker Cropsy ( hulking behemoth Lou David ) . The prank badly backfires and Cropsy winds up being horribly burned over most of his body . Now both extremely mad and grotesquely disfigured , Cropsy leaves the hospital and goes bounding off to the nearest summercamp armed with a giant pair of lethal garden shears with the specific intent of killing a whole gaggle of luckless people who cross his bitter and deadly path . Director Tony Maylam creates a substantial amount of tension , keeps the pace moving along at a steady , speedy clip , and stages the gruesome kill scenes with considerable brio ( one bravura terrifying sequence shows Cropsy viciously butchering five kids on a raft in broad daylight ) . Moreover , the first-rate make-up f / x by the great Tom Savini really deliver the gory goods , Yes keyboardist Rick Wakeman supplies an effectively shivery'n'spooky synthesizer score , and the characters are surprisingly likable and well-developed . A further source of enjoyment can be derived from early appearances by future " Seinfeld " TV series regular Jason Alexander , Oscar-winning actress Holly Hunter , Fisher ( " The Brother from Another Planet , " " Short Circuit " ) Stevens , and even Brian Backer ( Mark Ratner in " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " ) as a pathetically geeky peeping tom misfit . Better still , this film certainly doesn't skimp on the gratuitous nudity : beautiful busty blonde babe Carrick Glenn takes a shower and attractive slender brunette Carolyn Houlihan goes skinny-dipping . Sure , " The Burning " is a very crude and sleazy " Friday the 13th " rip-off , but it's nonetheless still nasty and trashy enough to qualify as a superior slice of early 80's slasher horror schlock .
A wickedly nasty and subversive contemporary road movie thriller spin on the classic fairytale " Little Red Riding Hood , " with a phenomenally brassy'n'sassy performance by Reese Witherspoon as a tough , scrappy , not-so-innocent California teenage runaway hitch-hiker who runs afoul of a pernicious roadside serial killer ( excellently played by Kiefer Sutherland ) who's on a self-appointed moralistic mission to rid the world of " garbage people . " Witherspoon narrowly avoids being killed by Sutherland , seriously hurting him in the process and winding up in jail on a trumped-up assault charge . However , Witherspoon manages to escape so she and Sutherland can have a ferocious climactic showdown at her grandmother's house , which in this brilliantly twisted picture turns out to be a grimy mobile home located in a seedy whitetrash trailer park . Writer / director Matthew Bright relates this blithely amoral and energetic exploitation trash pip with a gut-bustingly savage and unmerciful sense of no-holds-barred caustic black-as-midnight humor , thus giving this deliciously demented doozy a frantically hoppin ' electric charge and breezy irreverence that's impossible to either resist or dislike . Popping up in super supporting parts are Brooke Shields as Sutherland's snobby , unsuspecting wife , Amanda Plummer as Witherspoon's pathetic junkie hooker mom , Michael T . Weiss as Witherspoon's skeevy abusive stepdad , Brittany Murphy as a cheery lesbian , and Sydney Lassick as a jolly trailer park manager . Great barn-storming opening theme by Danny Elfman , too . And Witherspoon is a terrifically tart , brash and foul-mouthed revelation in what remains her best-ever starring role to date .
Late , great 70's drive-in movie queen Claudia Jennings is at her brassy , sassy and smoking sexy best as Candy Morgan , a kittenishly irreverent prison escapee who teams up with saucy former bank teller Ellie-Jo Turner ( winningly played by the very pretty and appealing Jocelyn Jones of " Tourist Trap " fame ) and goes on an eventful crime spree , robbing banks and breaking hunky guys ' hearts with equally joyful abandon . Directed with considerable verve by Michael Pressman , buoyed by a zippy , banjo-happy score by Craig ( " Nightmares , " " Warning Sign " ) Safan , further sparked by a cheerfully lowbrow sensibility and featuring a sidesplitting cameo by the ever-haughty Stefan ( " Blue Sunshine , " " Blood Beach " ) Gierasch as a stuffy hotel clerk who tries to refuse Claudia and Jocelyn a room , this extremely brash , funny and spirited hoot rates as a whole lot of top-rate infectiously trashy fun . The copious gratuitous nudity by the tall , slender , breathtakingly beautiful blonde Claudia and the more diminutive , but still comely and enticing Jocelyn constitutes as another substantial plus . Overall , this baby is an absolute must-see for Claudia Jennings fans in particular and aficionados of blithely amoral cheapo 70's redneck crime epics in general , which hopefully doesn't rule out too many folks .
England in the 1640s . Civil war has torn the country apart and lawlessness reigns supreme throughout the land . Cruel , cunning , evil opportunist Matthew Hopkins ( a brilliantly restrained and convincing Vincent Price in his greatest horror film performance ) and his sadistic assistant John Stearne ( a perfectly vile Robert Russell ) collect handsome fees for severely persecuting folks who have been accused of witchcraft . Hopkins and Stearne put innocent priest John Lowes ( a fine Rupert Davies ) to death and have their wicked way with Lowes ' sweet niece Sarah ( the extremely charming and fetching Hilary Dwyer ) . Sarah's soldier fianc Richard Marshall ( excellently played by Ian Ogilvy ) vows revenge on both Hopkins and Stearne . Director Michael Reeves , who co-wrote the bitter and caustic script with Tom Baker , delivers a potent and disturbing shocker about corruption , superstition , and the abuse of power . Reeves does an especially adept job of creating and sustaining a bleak , harsh , grimly serious and humorless tone which gives the horrific on-screen violence an additional hard and unnerving edge . Moreover , Reeves makes expert use of the beautifully verdant British countryside , which stands in stark contrast to the raw savagery depicted throughout the picture . Paul Ferris ' exquisitely lush'n'robust orchestral score and John Coquillon's gorgeously bright'n'crisp cinematography are both exceptional . Popping up in memorable cameos are Patrick Wymark as the hearty Cromwell , Wilfrid Brambell as the grotesquely effeminate Master Loach , and sexy British 60's pin-up girl Margaret Nolan as a bawdy wench . A strong and disturbing knockout that's wholly deserving of its sterling cult status .
Dour , moody , petulant , very masculine and unsociable loner abattoir worker Marcos ( a fine , low-key , creepily nonchalant performance by Vincente Parra ) and his peevish , unhappy girlfriend ( the lovely Emma Cohen ) take a ride in a taxi one fateful night . The irritable cab driver tosses them out when they start making out in the back of his taxi . Marcos and the cabbie have an altercation which results in the cabbie being killed . Marcos ' girlfriend wants to tell the cops . Marcos , who's distrustful of authority due to his lowly working class social status , throttles his girlfriend in a fit of pique . Pretty soon Marcos becomes extremely paranoid and begins to kill every last person who suspects him of being a homicidal maniac ( Marcos even whacks his own brother with a wrench ) . Marcos strikes up an uneasy friendship with an earnest , but suspicious gay neighbor . Things get even more tense . Meanwhile , Marcos chops up the corpses residing in his spartan , squalid rathole abode and disposes of the body parts by incinerating them in the slaughterhouse furnace . A grave , gruesome , exceedingly unnerving and disconcerting depiction of how severe self-loathing and one's miserably meager station in life can feasibly drive you murderously around the bend ( Marcos registers strongly as a hauntingly sullen and scarily twisted proletarian anti-hero ) , this dark , stark , deeply disturbing and harrowingly plausible psychological horror portrait of everyday gratuitous violence , repressed sexuality ( there's an edgy air of homo-eroticism apparent in the relationship between Marcos and his meddlesome neighbor ) , and seething , volatile little guy angst makes for a very queasy and unsettling viewing experience . The late , great Eloy de la Iglesia's taut , austere , fiercely humorless and deliberate direction , ably assisted by Raul Artigot's grainy , gloriously unadorned no-frills cinematography , Fernando G . Morcillo's spare , spooky , nerve-jangling score , occasional outbursts of hideously graphic and genuinely shocking violence , gradual pacing , an unsparingly solemn tone , and properly subdued naturalistic acting from the uniformly solid cast , creates a frightfully squirmy and sweaty suffocating gloom-doom atmosphere which ultimately delivers one hell of a potent and lingering kick-you-in-the-gut wallop . Anchor Bay's typically up-to-par DVD offers a nice widescreen presentation with the trailer as the sole extra .
There are several reasons why this remarkably taut , scary and effective science fiction / horror hybrid holds up so well to this very day . 1 . ) The premise ingeniously mixes elements from two separate , yet compatible genres into a strong and satisfying synthesis . The futuristic outer space setting is pure sci-fi , but the grotesque monster , ghastly gore and spooky mood are sheer gut-wrenching horror all the way . 2 . ) The plausibly drab and bleak depiction of a frightfully possible future . There's nothing slick or shiny about the future shown in this picture . It's truly grim and grimy , with the grungy set design , grubby costumes and rundown looking spaceship all contributing to one fascinatingly credible version of a future that seems just around the corner . The all-powerful company's cold assessment of the crew as expendable isn't too far removed from the world we currently live in - - a world in which greed and money take precedent over the basic worth ascribed to everyday human life . 3 . ) The gradual pace . While there are some folks who take issue with the methodically slow pace , said pace nonetheless is crucial to developing the almost unbearably substantial amount of suspense that really kicks into harrowing overdrive once the creature gets lose on the ship . It's the meticulous build-up of the first half which gives the second half of the film its considerable nerve-wracking impact and potency . 4 . ) The infamous " chest-burster " scene . It's so supremely well-timed and staged , with highly believable mixed reactions from everyone involved in the scene . 5 . ) The uniformly superlative acting from a top-notch cast . Sigourney Weaver positively shines in her break-out star-making role as tough sole survivor Ripley , with stellar support from Tom Skerritt , Yaphet Kotto , Ian Holm , John Hurt , Veronica Cartwright , and the always terrific Harry Dean Stanton . 6 . ) Jerry Goldsmith's exceptional score . Ace composer Goldsmith chimes in with one of his most brilliantly spare and chilling scores ever . 7 . ) The thoroughly convincing warts'n'all human characters . The way the well-drawn characters bicker and interact with each other rings completely true throughout . 8 . ) The strikingly gloomy cinematography by Derek Vanlint gives this feature a supremely powerful dark'n'shadowy atmospheric look . 9 . ) The still quite sound and cogent special effects . Done prior to CGI , those miniatures have an organic quality to them that's extremely persuasive . 10 . ) That hideously vile , nasty and downright creepy alien itself . Sure , it's just a guy in a suit , but wow does that suit seem incredibly genuine and lifelike . 11 . ) Ridley Scott's faultless direction never wavers from start to finish , keeping the absorbing story on track while delivering plenty of jolts and cranking up the clammy claustrophobic tension to the often exhilarating ninth degree . Add all these sterling factors together and the net result is a simply spectacular motion picture that's wholly deserving of its classic status .
Wow , I can't believe the fiercely negative reviews this marvelously messed-up two-cent amateur oddity has elicited . You see , I honestly really dig this flick . I personally think this gloriously godawful regional Utah " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " - stealing drive-in sci-fi doozy deserves a place on your home video library shelf alongside the seminal " all it takes is ambition and enthusiasm to crank out a feature " - type backyard works of Bill Rebane and Don Dohler . Any hardcore cinematic schlockoholic's prayers are immediately answered and appeased in the enticingly crummy pre-credits prologue , which shows an annoying comic relief hillbilly hooch-hound who bears an uncanny resemblance to a taller , skinnier George " Buck " Flower having his remote woodland shack buzzed by a hilariously hokey-looking spaceship . The flimsy plot , as far as it goes , depicts a tiny hick hamlet being terrorized by evil extraterrestrial beings on Halloween night ( boy , that's a novel premise . . . NOT ! ) , with the chief focus put on a goofy gaggle of funky " Phantasm " ish teenagers who discover the aliens ' secret base in the bowels of your proverbial creepy old rundown abandoned house located in the middle of nowhere . Peter Semelka's beautifully clueless direction dexterously covers all the so - hideously - wrong - it's - paradoxically - right bad film bases : an on-and-off meandering tempo , game , yet pathetic thesping from a conspicuously pumped community theater-style cast ( in fact , several of the atrocious adolescent actors won roles in this picture after participating in a local radio contest ! ) , dippy dialog ( " This ain't no airport - - god danged airplanes ! " ) , absolutely no intuitive grasp of style , pacing and carefully wrought narrative construction to speak of , terrifically primitive cinematography which makes exquisitely ugly use of scratched - all - to - unsightly - hell ratty 16mm film stock , incredibly vapid kid main characters ( one's a fat dolt in a gorilla suit ) , astonishingly stupid would-be surprising plot twists , a sweetly monotonous hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , hissy sound quality , lame attempts at dopey humor , slipshod editing , fabulously phony alien creatures ( complete with glowing red bug eyes , no less ! ) , similarly rinky-dink Tonka toy miniatures , an unbelievably putrid disco ending credits theme song , one of those irritatingly irresolute " they're still out there " ominous non-endings , and a story that's so basic , elementary and connect-the-dots predictable that its very obviousness acquires an inexplicably alluring , albeit askew numb-skull appeal . A wondrously wretched example of " let's amass a thousand bucks , gather up a bunch of friends who'll work for peanuts , and make ourselves a bona-fide motion picture in a couple of weeks " dime-store dreck that's eminently worth of both rediscovery and possible cult status . I myself think it's without a doubt the shamefully unsung and ignored " Plan 9 of Outer Space " of the 70's .
This remarkable documentary centers on a troop of American soldiers in Iraq who make their base of operation in the bombed-out remains of Saddam Hussein's pleasure palace . The soldiers interviewed herein candidly discuss killing enemy soldiers , the bitter possibility of being killed in combat , and how no one but themselves will ever fully understand what they're going through while fighting in the war . A majority of these soldiers are fresh-faced teenagers straight out of high school who hail from obscure small American towns ; their charming sense of naivet and wide-eyed innocence puts a genuinely human face on war itself that's alternately funny , sad , shocking , and ultimately quite moving . The filmmakers follow the soldiers as they carry out their sometimes useless and often dangerous daily routine missions and goof around Hussein's palace in their spare time . Several soldiers perform incredible rap songs that are not only profane and amusing , but also very profound and touching . This movie thankfully eschews politics and preaching in favor of simply letting the soldiers tell their own story in their own words ; this gives the picture a strong sense of urgency and intimacy that's both powerful and impossible to shake . The chaos , boredom and frightening unpredictability of war is vividly captured by the compelling anecdotes related by the soldiers . An amazing achievement that's essential viewing for anyone interested in seeing the soldiers ' perspective on the war in Iraq .
This astoundingly abysmal piece of unmitigated schlock rates highly as one of the single most sublimely stupid and sidesplitting kitsch hoots I've had the pleasure to watch in quite a while . An evil drug lord uses a bunch of rot-faced hopping vampires to retain his power . Narcotics agent Tom Wilde gets shot and killed in the line of duty . He's brought back to life as a lethal and unstoppable cyborg who looks like he's been wrapped from head to toe in bright shiny tin foil . Meanwhile a macho meathead mercenary guy battles dope dealers in the jungle who have abducted a beautiful blonde babe agent . Boy , does this jaw-dropping dreadful doozy possess all the correct so - utterly - wrong - that - they're - paradoxically - right stuff to qualify as a real four-star stinkeroonie : fumbling ( mis ) direction , priceless dopey dialogue ( favorite line : " Kill the priest , quick ! " ) , ineptly staged shoot-outs , hilariously horrible dubbing , plentiful gut-busting over-the-top chopysocky fight scenes , broadly drawn characters , horrendously hammy acting , a silly romantic subplot involving the head vampire guy who can fire sparks from his fingertips and a sexy ghost girl wearing a semi-transparent gown ( said sexy ghost girl is obviously doubled by a man during her more strenuous fight scenes ! ) , a generic hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , outrageously gruesome , yet tacky gore , a rambling and barely coherent narrative ( this flick is clearly two separate movies which have been sloppily edited together ) , a nonstop frantic pace , and a seriously messed-up story that clumsily combines elements of horror , action , martial arts , crime thriller and even comedy into a spectacularly ungodly brew . An undeniably awful , but often uproarious and always immensely entertaining serving of infectiously inane celluloid lunacy .
New Grenada is a cozy , pleasant , sedate planned suburbanite community in California . The swank , dreary burg's bored and ignored adolescent population wreaks much havoc ( senseless vandalism , excessive swilling of cheap , available booze , inane , but irritating pranks , multifarious abuse of illegal illicit narcotic substances , and so on ) , which the kids see as the sole viable option for kicking the never-ending tedious blahs that are an intrinsic part of living in such a pedestrian small town . Basically decent , but confused lad Michael Kramer falls in with the neighborhood bad boys , namely surly , heedless , recalcitrant 14-year-old rebel without a clue Matt Dillon ( who's perfect in his film debut ) and vicious jerk bully Vincent Spano . A totally trenchant , arresting and frequently unsettling portrait of seething suburbanite teenage angst and its bitter consequences , " Over the Edge " still remains both timely and topical to this very day . Kramer , Dillon , Spano , Pamela Ludwig and Andy Romano all give excellent and compelling performances as the angry , hostile , mixed-up kids , a memorably nihilistic , unsupervised and uncontrollable bunch of hooligans who get into trouble in a desperate effort to get their negligent , self-absorbed Me Generation parents to notice them . The almost alway fine Jonathan Kaplan's expert , astute , slam bang on-target direction maintains a swift , steady pace , keeps the mood scarily intense throughout , and presents the kids ' assorted criminal antics in a grimly plausible manner . The vivid , cutting , perceptive script by Tim Hunter ( who later wrote and directed the equally chilling and outstanding " The River's Edge " ) and Charlie Haas nails adolescent disaffection and disillusionment with harrowing accuracy . Both Andrew Davis ' agile , lively , luminous cinematography and Sol Kaplan's super , alternately sad and stirring score contribute considerably to the film's sterling quality . The exceptional , highly appropriate and subtly subversive rock soundtrack includes choice 70's tunes by the Ramones , Cheap Trick , the Cars , Van Halen , Little Feet , Jimi Hendrix , and Valerie Carter , whose haunting , elegiac cover of the Starsteps ' bubblegum soul classic " Ooh Child " is played to genuinely devastating effect during the ending credits . The climactic mini-apocalypse - - the kids run completely amuck , trashing and torching several cars and the local civic center - - is truly horrifying . The movie's smart refusal to pass judgment on the kids and their shocking amoral behavior is the key to its tremendous success ; instead the film wisely observes the kids and their actions , thus allowing the audience to make up their own minds what to think about it all . A terrific and powerful knock-out about parental apathy , the destructive , anti-social juvenile malcontents who are direct toxic products of gross adult indifference to their plight , and the severe dysfunction that lurks just below suburbia's placid surface that grown-ups don't wish to openly acknowledge the existence of , this remarkable troubled teen masterpiece hasn't dated a bit and still packs a potent punch even today , primarily because it starkly addresses certain bleak and disturbing social issues that are still sadly prevalent in our society .
Quite simply one of the all-time great spooky and atmospheric British sci-fi / horror winners from the 60's , this supremely chilling and engrossing knockout still packs a potent , lingering punch even today . All the young women in the quiet remote English hamlet of Midwich mysteriously become pregnant after the whole populace goes into a bizarre and abrupt 24-hour trance . The ladies give birth to a bunch of odd , emotionless , tow-headed kids with extraordinary kinetic and telepathic abilities . They also have glowing bright eyes , unusual fingernails , and acute advanced intellects . Moreover , the murderous moppets casually kill anyone they perceive as a threat in strange and startling " accidents . " Some of the frightened townspeople stand up to the freaky tykes to no avail . It's ultimately up to brave and perceptive military scientist George Sanders ( who gives a truly outstanding performance ) to put a stop to ' em before it's too late . Tautly directed with commendable understatement by Wolf Rilla , with a smart and compact script co-written by future Oscar-winning screenwriter Stirling Stilliphant , gorgeous black-and-white cinematography , a nicely spare and shivery score , an eerily ambiguous tone , a pleasingly concise 78 minute running time , uniformly aces acting from a top-drawer cast ( the child thespians are extremely unsettling while Hammer horror queen Barbara Shelley makes for a very charming and pretty damsel in distress ) , and a genuinely nerve-wracking conclusion , " Village of the Damned " never falters for a minute . The film's smashing success derives partly from Rilla's wisely stark and straightforward execution , partly from the sheer vague creepiness of the intriguing plot ( no explanation is ever given for how or why the children were born in the first place ) , and primarily from downplaying needless flashy special effects razzle-dazzle to emphasize instead the strong and absorbing adults vs . children conflict at the heart of the narrative ( this movie could be read as a weird and imaginative fantastic allegory on the generation gap that was a key hallmark of the 60's ) . A terrific terror tale that's wholly deserving of its substantial classic status .
