Apart from two scenes of gratuitous nudity there's absolutely nothing to recommend here . " Too Scared to Scream " is completely lifeless , dull and bloodless outing in the slasher genre . The acting is awful , the pace is extremely slow and the final motif of a knife-wielding killer is so painfully stupid that it has to be heard to be believed . Anne Archer in her first role is incredibly wooden , and there is almost no blood and gore to be seen here . So don't be fooled by other reviews-this is one of the worst , most boring slash'em all flicks I have ever seen . . You'll regret seeing this your all life !
" The Ungodly " is one of the worst horror movies I have seen ( and I've seen nearly 2000 horror movies so far ) . This is a slobbering , dire , stupid mess of a film directed by Raphael Nussbaum . I can't believe I wasted my money on such a diabolically bad , excrement laden piece of trash . The acting is awful , the special effects are cheesy beyond belief and there's plenty of silly humour in this one . I found here also the most idiotic depiction of Satanism ever captured on screen . There's no suspense , no gore , just huge pile of idiocy . Avoid this piece of garbage at all costs . ( because the final appearance of Satan is hysterically funny and there's also a little bit of sex ) .
" The Omen " by John Moore is so strikingly similar to the original that I was able to predict scenes in explicit detail . Thankfully I saw this boring crap for free . The filmmakers added only a few minor changes-for example the opening scene is slightly different . The plot is the same as in Richard Donner's horror classic : Liev Schreiber takes the Gregory Peck role as a US diplomat who discovers that the boy he has raised as his own is actually the son of Satan . First of all the remake of " The Omen " is extremely dull and as exciting as watching paint dry . Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick who plays Damien is one of the worst child actors I have ever seen on screen . This kid is simply not scary , just annoying as hell . There is absolutely no suspense , even the death scenes are weak . Admittedly the cinematography is slick and the acting is generally solid ( with the exception of Damien ) , unfortunately this remake is completely pointless . " The Omen " is the product of a lack of ideas from screenwriters who would rather dust off old scripts instead of trying to come up with something new . Avoid it like the plague .
" I Like Bats " is about a beautiful Polish woman , who is a vampire . She would like to become a human , so she seeks help from a psychiatrist . There is no doubt that Polish horror movies are incredibly rare , but this vampire laugh-fest is truly awful . Extremely boring , badly acted and stupid it features the most laughable depiction of vampires ever put to film . If you want a piece of good Polish horror check out " Wilczyca " ( 1983 ) or " Widziadlo " ( 1983 ) . Avoid this steaming pile of crap like the plague-you'll thank me later . and that's being generous . Recommended only if you need a perfect cure for insomnia or if you are desperate to see all the horror movies ever made .
On a weekend hunting trip two firefighters Alex Kerwood and Wayne Higley stumble onto a mysterious burial site . They dig it up and find the skull of an ancient horned creature . Big mistake ! Suddenly the unleashed monster starts killing people in a small American town . . . OK , I'm a pretty tolerant guy when it comes to low-budget indie horror , but " In the Woods " is bad to the bone . The script is lifeless and dull , the suspense is non-existent and the action takes place in the woods for only 10 minutes or so . The DVD proudly claims " Creepier than ' The Blair Witch Project ' " . Yeah , right ! Avoid this piece of cow dung like the plague unless you want to be bored beyond comprehension .
" Pet Sematary 2 " is a totally unnecessary sequel to the first " Pet Sematary " , which has to be one of my favourite horror movies of all time . Instead of suspense it is loaded with gore and repulsive violence . The acting is pretty bad , the characters are one-dimensional and the film is completely idiotic in places ( for example how our boys managed to carry the body of Gus through the quagmire ? ) . If you're a gore-hound then you will be able to handle this little flick ( there are better gorefests , though ) , but if you like scary horror movies avoid this trash like the plague . .
Sydney gets intrigued by a new online dating service and since she hasn't dated anyone for several years , she decides to sign up . Unbeknownst for her the dating service is run by a pack of female lesbian vampires . " The Last Sect " bored me senseless . It is simply mind-numbingly dull . The plot is incredibly tedious and worst of all there is absolutely no nudity . As a fan of early 70's lesbian vampire flicks like " Vampyres " , " Twins of Evil " or " Vampyros Lesbos " I found the lack of nudity incredibly disappointing . Admittedly the film is well-made and the women are quite gorgeous to look at , however " The Last Sect " offers zero scares or gore and is simply worthless . Avoid it . .
" Candyman : Day of the Dead " is an incredible pile of garbage . The script is not only awful , but extremely predictable with a totally pathetic ending ( I won't go into it , but you might kick in your TV set after viewing it ) . The acting is really pitiful , with dialogue to match . OK , there are some nice splatter scenes ( I like especially the sequence in the car when one guy is slowly gutted ) , but the rest of the film absolutely sucks . To sum up , " Candyman : Day of the Dead " is one of the worst horror movies ever made-bland , boring and mind numbingly stupid and gets 3 only because of some pretty good gore . I really like bad horror movies , but this is an insult . Avoid it at all costs . Not recommended .
" The Deaths of Ian Stone " tells the story of an unfortunate young hockey player , who mysteriously encounters a creature late one night and then is thrown into the path of an oncoming train . The next day , he wakes up like nothing even happened , but in a different corporate life . He's quickly murdered again by supernatural presence . It turns out the creatures are Harvesters , beings that live on the fear and pain that humans associate with dying . " The Deaths of Ian Stone " plays like an uneven mix of " Matrix " , " Groundhog Day " and " Jacob's Ladder " . The script offers few surprises and a lot of annoying CGI-effects . The premise is certainly fresh , but the lack of suspense is hard to forgive . There is only a little bit of gore and the climax is downright stupid . I'm fed up with modern horror films that try to scare me with laughable CGI-creatures . Unfortunately " The Deaths of Ian Stone " suffers too much from obnoxious computer generated imagery . .
A man who cannot stand up for himself-not to his foul boss , nor to his adulterous wife-wakes up one day to find an irremovable mask over his features . His human face hidden even from himself , he begins to exact bloody revenge . " Bruiser " by George A . Romero is a revenge fantasy in the E . C . horror comics tradition . Romero is a great horror director-unfortunately he's just not doing anything worth mentioning . " Bruiser " is an extremely weak horror flick . After about 40 minutes it turns into yet another slasher film ( with only slightly more panache than the usual fare ) . The most disappointing thing about " Bruiser " is that the film just doesn't feel like a horror movie , or at least a horror movie made by the great George A . Romero . There are some fascinating images and ideas going on in " Bruiser " , but there is very little gore or suspense . Still I'm waiting impatiently for Romero's " Land of the Dead " - I hope that that film will blow me away . .
A serial killer ( William Witt ) is murdering young women of San Francisco . Police detective Michael ( Warren Lincoln ) tries to find him . Unfortunately , Michael's fiancee Jennifer ( Taylor Gilbert ) soon becomes the madman's next obsession . She finds herself trapped inside a dark house with an elderly near-cripple ( Eve Brenner ) . " Torment " is a boring thriller which offers nothing new . There is no gore and no nudity , so fans of horror will be disappointed . Even the violence is toned down . There is some suspense during the climax , but I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone . .
I wasn't amused with " Amusement " . The laughable synopsis on the cover goes like that : Tabitha , Shelby and Lisa . They're longtime friends on separate life paths . But they share a horrific destination when a seemingly innocent incident from their school days comes back to terrify them . Someone wants payback : warped vengeance . . . mind-games vengeance . . . taunting , shredding , slashing vengeance . Inside a stone-walled chamber of prison cells and mechanisms of doom , the three women and other victims face a fierce fight to survive . " Amusement " is terrible . With dumb plot and zero scares it offers nothing even remotely interesting even for seasoned horror fan . The killer is an underdeveloped cliché with truly annoying laugh . There is only one effectively creepy scene in which the emerging female lead is confronted with a room stuffed with dolls and clowns . The violence is tame so gorehounds and slasher fans will be disappointed . .
Pauline Suen plays remorseless female psychopath from Mainland who seduces her cousin's wimpy husband . When her almost always horny cousin Kuen objects Suen proceeds to butcher her and use her meat for roast ribs . Totally unnecessary sequel to my beloved " The Untold Story " . It's nowhere nearly as powerful and shocking as its sickeningly nasty predecessor . Anthony Wong returns as veteran cop Officer Lazybones who divides his time between arresting illegal chicken sellers and eating at Cheung's roast shop . The film is filled with lots of lame comedy and there is not enough gore and violence for my liking . The dismemberment of Kuen is quite gruesome and there is a bit of delicious sleaze , but I expected more . The film also spawned a second sequel " The Untold Story III " by Herman Yau . .
The plot of " Dogarama " is very simple : a future star of " Deep Throat " Linda Lovelace is pleasured by a German Shepherd . Personally I don't know what to think about this film . It's cheaply made , taboo-breaking and utterly sickening . Bestiality is still considered as a taboo in many countries and such stuff is simply illegal . I read that Linda Lovelace was so ashamed of starring in two bestiality flicks " Dogarama " and " Dog One " that she later claimed that she was forced to have sex with her pet dog . She didn't like to talk about those two infamous stag films . For a long time she even denied that such movies existed . Anyway , being a fan of extreme cinema I always wanted to see this piece of filth . Now after watching it I can safely say that " Dog F'cker " is not worth checking out . It's not enjoyable , not arousing , it's just sick . Still fans of Linda Lovelace should check it out . and that's being generous .
Two friends hit the road for a surfing trip and decide to take a short-cut when night falls to speed up their journey . On their way they meet a couple of girls with a fast car and are invited to a party . In the following car race , the guys crash their car and go looking for help . They approach a farmhouse but as they look in the window , they see someone being murdered . Now the friends are on the run from the locals who want to kill them . " The Locals " is a major disappointment . The film plays like the cross of " Deliverance " and " The Sixth Sense " , but as an avid horror fan I found it dull and suspenseless . The locals are neither scary nor menacing . The photography is good and there are some creepy locations , but the absence of suspense is hard to forgive . The director shows some potential , so hopefully his next horror project will be more intense than unexciting " The Locals " . .
Umberto Lenzi's " Eyeball " is a mediocre giallo which is about a vicious killer who gouges an eye out of his female victims while slashing them to death . The setting is sunny Barcelona and the suspects include a bus loaded with coarse American tourists . " Eyeball " is one of the weakest giallos I have ever seen . It's a shame , because Lenzi can turn out a really atmospheric giallo like " Sette Orchidee Macchiate di Rosso " ( 1971 ) . The script is awful and the killer-in-a-red-raincoat is nothing new ( check out " Don't Look Now " ) . The score by Bruno Nicolai is terrible . There is plenty of nudity and sleaze and some violent murders including throat cuttings and eye gougings . The film is pretty dull and forgettable , so don't waste your time with it . Check out some other giallos instead . .
" Martin " is about a young disturbed boy who believes himself to be a 77 years old vampire . Martin drugs women and drinks their blood after slashing their wrists with a straight razor . He becomes a radio sensation known as The Count when he describes his crimes nightly to a late night radio DJ . " Martin " is a weird and atmospheric tale , with John Amplas character being alternately creepy and charismatic . The cast is surprisingly good , and the atmosphere is beautifully surreal with hypnotic flashback sequences . Romero builds up a great amount of suspense with the good use of locations , story and a little bit of gore . Recommended viewing for horror fans and vampire enthusiasts .
Some happy campers are stalked and viciously butchered by a demented cannibalistic killer called Daddy . " The Forest " is one of the strangest slasher flicks I have ever seen . It starts fairly competently , but quickly becomes boring and tedious . The opening murder scene of two backpackers in the California wilderness is quite suspenseful and gory . The acting is really bad and the script is not better . Still there is a lot of cheese for fans of slasher movies . Unfortunately the gore is kept to minimum , so gorehounds may be disappointed . The film features also the ghosts of two kids and their mother and I can safely say that this supernatural element adds some touches of originality to the plot . So if you are a fan of slasher films you can check this one out . However I prefer Donald M . Jones earlier horror film " Schoolgirls in Chains " ( 1973 ) , which is way more demented than " The Forest " .
" The Night Porter " really isn't as shocking as his reputation suggests , but still there is a good amount of sleaze featured here . I've heard that the main source of inspiration for Liliana Cavani was her interview with a real concentration camp survivor who was forced into a sadistic relationship with one of her captors . Dirk Bogarde is excellent as a Max , a former SS officer ! The film is well-made and a little bit disturbing-I'm fairly sure that it influenced an infamous " Ilsa-She Wolf of the SS " . Check it out , but be prepared for some rather unpleasant stuff !
A young virgin , Magadalena ( Dagmar Hedrich ) , orphaned at a boarding school for girls is raped and possessed by an invisible demon which exists the corpse of a recently deceased Satanist . Possessed by the demonic spirit Magdalena spews obscenities and runs around naked . " Magadalena , Possessed by the Devil " is loaded with delicious sleaze and exploitative elements . The film is fun to watch and quite blasphemous , so fans of outrageous exploitation cinema will be enthralled . The acting is terrible , the plot is weak and there is no suspense whatsoever , but I don't care . I wanted sleaze and nudity and that's what I've got . So if you like sleaze cinema give this one a look . Highly recommended especially hand in hand with " Malabimba " by Andrea Bianchi .
A Nazi war criminal named Franz , hidden in the jungles of Africa , is running guns to the presumably hostile natives . The governments of the world send an inept band of agents , poorly disguised as a reverend and four nuns , to investigate . " Tarzan and the Mystery of Jungle " is a perfect example of turkey cinema . The acting is laughable , the fight scenes are horrible and there is no nudity . Richard Yesteran steals the show as Tarzan and his yell is wonderful . The film is pretty tough to find , but if you like laughably bad cinema give it a look . Recommended .
Clive Barker's " Nightbreed " ( based on Barker's novel " Cabal " ) is a disappointing horror film-especially in comparison to legendary " Hellraiser " ( 1987 ) . First of all there is not enough suspense or gore to satisfy horror fans . The sets are incredibly fake as are some of the monsters . However the cast is fine and David Cronenberg steals the show as a Dr . Phillip K . Decker . Check it out if you have enough time to kill . . . My rating : .
The young American tourists in Spain encounter lethal alien lifeforms that were brought to Earth by Apollo 14 then tested on animals aboard SkyLab . But SkyLab has now crashed to Earth and the aliens have survived , infect the locals and messily killing them . The trio of young people pick up a NASA scientist who has to get an antidote to a nearby laboratory . " Alien Predator " was one of the very first horror films I have seen as the kid . That's why I can't give it a negative rating , even though the pace is lethargic and the gore is kept to minimum . However the film is suitably dark and atmospheric and offers a few creepy moments . The acting is decent and the characters are likeable . .
Clive Barker's " Hellraiser " is an entertaining horror film as is " Hellbound : Hellraiser II " , but I'm going to say that " Hellraiser III : Hell on Earth " is a big disappointment . The film is really boring , but it has some interesting elements . The gore is plentiful and some of the scenes like Pinhead's nightclub massacre truly blew me away . Doug Bradley is excellent as Pinhead , unfortunately these new Cenobites are more laughable than scary . A guy who shoots razor-sharp CD's , another with a camera in his head , and another who breathes fire ? Come on , these villains look more like carnival sideshow freaks than hellish Cenobites . The film is still marginally entertaining , so if you're a fan of " Hellraiser " series give it a look . My rating : .
A priest is sent to investigate an outbreak of apparent demonic possession at convent . There is certainly something dark and sinister at work there , but is it really Satan or maybe has it something to do with the Mother Superior's gloomy secrets ? " The Other Hell " by Bruno Mattei is an atypical Italian nunsploitation flick . There is absolutely no sex or nudity , still there is a little bit of gore . The film offers some rather tasteless moments like genital mutilation or blood-vomiting nuns . The acting is terrible and the dialogue is stupid , but the film is fast-paced and surprisingly entertaining . So if you like Italian horror films give this one a look . My rating : and that's being very generous .
" Bone Sickness " by Brian Paulin is an ultra gruesome and extremely gory independent zombie flick . The film is loaded with tons of gore and violence . Bodies are torn out , eaten , shot , impaled , beheaded , chewed up , set on fire , rotting corpses are filled with maggots and worms and the gore flows freely . Alex is terminally ill with a degenerative bone disease for which there is no cure . Even if there was , his wife wouldn't be able to afford the treatment anyways . With the help of Alex's friend Thomas , they seek an alternative medical treatment . Soon they are thrown into a nightmare of flesh-eating zombies . Anyway , the film is well-made and acted and the makeup effects are impressive . Of course " Bone Sickness " is not as memorable as " The Beyond " or " City of the Living Dead " , but it's still among the best American indie zombie flicks ever made . Oh , and this gruesome bloodbath is dedicated to Thomas ' Quorthon ' Forsberg of Bathory fame , so my full respect goes to its director Brian Paulin .
John Shum leads an expedition to an supposedly deserted island only to find out that it's inhabited by a group of seriously demented characters , lead by Peter Chan Lung . This is a family that stays together , slays together and when the youngest one is refused in marriage to one of the young girls of the troupe they turn into savage maniacs . Obviously inspired by Tobe Hooper's " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " The Island " offers very few nasty surprises . The villains are quite outrageous , but the gore and violence is kept to minimum . In fact the majority of the film resembles cheerful HK comedy loaded with silly humour and it's not until the hour mark that the horror truly begins . Hong Kong filmmakers often seems very desperate to include laughs whenever they can and " The Island " is no exception . Check out " Flesh and the Bloody Terror " or " Corpse Mania " , if you want truly grim early 80's HK horror .
Monte Cazazza's 8 minutes long short " SXXX-80 " is his collaboration with Tana Emmolo Smith . It depicts Cazazza digging a hole in his penis with a metal scalpel , and Cosey Fanne Tutti letting a gigantic black centipede scuttle over her freshly shaved vagina . Often described as pornographic " SXXX-80 " is certainly a bizarre and gross piece of experimental film-making . I had an opportunity to see it on Psychic TV bizarre and ultra-disturbing compilation tape " First Transmission " ( 1982 ) . Monte Cazazza was a regular collaborator with Genesis P . Orridge and Psychic TV . So if you are into bizarre transgressive cinema give " SXXX-80 " a look . For fans of Throbbing Gristle or Psychic TV this lovingly weird short is a must-see .
The story follows young Amy escaping a would-be rapist ( played hilariously by Jean Rollin himself ! ) only to end up in the château of charming yet nefarious Gideon . Gideon had recently " lost " his wife and is intent on performing some Marquis de Sade-ish sex rituals on the guys and gals staying in the castle . Stylish porno horror made by Jean Rollin that is high on porn , but low on horror . From about the 10 minute mark ' til the end the film it is just a series of hardcore sex scenes with little to no dialogue . Personally I prefer Rollin softcore lesbian vampire flicks like " The Living Dead Girl " or " Lips of Blood " , but if you are a curious fan of this French film-maker try to find " Phantasmes " in its uncut glory .
" Mardi Gras Massacre " is a sleazy trash with misogynistic murders and tons of hilarity . It surely is one of the most unintentionally amusing experiences one can have . New Orlean is a dangerous city . There is a killer on the loose . The butcher of strippers and hookers . He is looking for evil women . He narrows his eyes and says to his female victims " I am looking . . . for someone . . . Evil ! " then asks " Are you evil ? " . This gentleman killer , who orders Chinese Food delivery for one of his sacrificial lambs , has an Aztec fetish , so he wants to tie naked ladies to an altar and sacrifice them to some bloodthirsty Aztec god . " Mardi Gras Massacre " delivers tons of full-frontal nudity , sleaze and a bit of nasty gore . There's also an incredibly poorly acted subplot surrounding the cop investigating these ritualistic murders falling in love with one of the hookers . The funniest thing is that " Mardi Gras Massacre " was classified as a video nasty . .
" August Underground's Penance " is basically the personal home video of two sociopathic killers on murder spree . Again two nameless butchers played by Fred Vogel and Cristie Whiles videotape their bloodthirsty madness , but " Penance " shows also their slow decline . First of all I'm not a big fan of " August Underground " series . Still as a lover of extreme cinema who had previously seen " August Underground " and " August Underground's Mordum " I really wanted to see the final installment . This time the faux-VHS look of Mordum has been tossed aside in favor of a more contemporary digital look . The gore effects made by ToeTag crew are very convincing and the violence is dirty and vile . There are some boring moments , but overall " Penance " is not as perverted and repulsive as " Mordum " . .
The story follows a wealthy stock broker named Paul who is vacationing on a yacht in the Mediterranean with his girlfriend Barbara and some other friends . When their ship draws near the small coastal village of Imbocca , a storm suddenly rises up and smashes the vessel on the rocks . Paul and Barbara go to the village for help as their friend Vicki is trapped below decks with her husband Howard . The villagers seem strange with pale , almost slimy skin and vacant eyes and they look like fish . " Dagon " is an adaptation of H . P Lovecraft short story " Dagon " with the bit of " The Shadow Over Innsmouth " thrown in . There is enough blood and guts to keep horror fans happy . The ritual skinning scene is especially gruesome . The deformed villagers look creepy , unfortunately the CGI effects are awful and cartoonish . Overall " Dagon " is definitely a horror film worth checking out . .
" Bloody Moon " is a great slasher film from the master of exploitation Jesus Franco . The plot is obviously inspired by " Halloween " and " Friday the 13th " . The acting is pretty average , but there is plenty of gore to satisfy fans of splatter . There is for example very bloody power saw decapitation plus some other killings which involve chainsaws , razorblades and knives . The music score is pretty appalling and the film's theme tune is incredibly annoying . Overall , the film is moderately entertaining , so if you're a Franco fan give this one a look . Here is the plot : " Bloody Moon " takes place in a Spanish language school , where pretty female students are murdered by an unidentified stalker in a variety of grisly ways .
The plot of " Scared " is very simple : we have a bus full of Thai school-kids on a school trip deep in a rain forest . Stranded by an accident , the survivors are viciously dispatched one by one in increasingly gruesome ways . Who is responsible for a series of brutal murders ? " Scared " plays like the cross between " Battle Royale " , " My Little Eye " and American teen slasher flick . The action is fast-paced and the body count is surprisingly high . The death scenes are creative and quite gory . However the plot is thin and the characters are totally one-dimensional . Still the gore effects are effective with decapitations , impalements and heads split in half to boost . " Scared " is certainly more engaging and entertaining than " Urban Legend " movies , " Cherry Falls " or similar crap . Give it a chance . .
John Carpenter's " Prince of Darkness " is clearly not as good as " Halloween " and " The Thing " , but it offers some truly creepy and haunting moments . A scientific research team finds a mysterious cylinder full of green fluid in a deserted church . It is in fact the Devil , contained in this prison since time began which can only be opened from the inside . Unfortunately it's beginning to stir and strange events occur . It seems that the Devil wants to release himself . " Prince of Darkness " is a pretty good shocker with interesting story to boost . The acting is reasonable and there are a few regulars in the cast including Donald Pleasence . The soundtrack by John Carpenter is very moody and chilling . So if you're a horror fan give this one a look . My rating : .
" The Dunwich Horror " is the second H . P . Lovecraft adaptation from art director Daniel Haller ( " Die , Monster , Die ! " ) is actually another flawed attempt to capture the unimaginable darkness of Lovecraft's literature on film . Sandra Dee plays Nancy Walker , a young college student who is lured into the mysterious house of Whateley by the creepy young warlock Wilbur Whateley ( Dean Stockwell ) . The local community has long suspected that the whole Whateley family-Wilbur , his grandfather ( Sam Jaffe ) , and his mother , who is in an insane asylum-is unholy , and soon their suspicions are confirmed . Wilbur intends to use Nancy as a human sexual sacrifice that will unleash dark powers-represented by his monstrous twin brother , who exists in another dimension-across the earth . Occult professor Dr . Armitage ( Ed Begley ) discovers what Wilbur's up to , and with the aid of Nancy's roommate ( Donna Baccala ) , he tries to stop it . " The Dunwich Horror " is a psychedelic little horror film that offers some interesting visuals . The film is slow-paced and there is absolutely no gore . It relies more on suggestion than shocks , so if you like old-fashioned horror give it a look . .
A divorced dad and son attempt to build on their newly resurrected relationship by heading back to pop's hometown named Salem in up-state Maine . When he gets there , he finds that all the townspeople have turned into 300-year-old vampires . " A Return to Salem's Lot " by Larry Cohen is not as bad as it's reputed to be . In fact I used to watch it pretty often when I was a kid . Of course it's not as scary or suspenseful as Tobe Hooper's " Salem's Lot " , but it still manages to entertain if you are in the right mood . The acting is terrible as is the make-up of the vampires , but there is enough amusing moments to make the viewer smile . Samuel Fuller is quite memorable as a Vampire slayer . Overall , " A Return to Salem's Lot " is a quirky , occasionally uneven horror film that is worth a look for fans of Larry Cohen's unusual horror movies . and that's being kind .
" Lifeforce " is often regarded by many horror fans as a cult favourite and it's rather easy to see why . On the other hand , I prefer Tobe Hooper's earlier horror films like " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " Eaten Alive " or " The Funhouse " over this one . Still " Lifeforce " perfectly blends elements of science fiction and vampire / horror . The acting is quite good and there's a little bit of gore . The idea of the aliens serving as the origin of vampires , and the feeding off of humans not being for blood but actual life energy , not through a bite but through a kiss , is actually pretty refreshing and original . Mathilda May steals the show as a female space vampire and she spends almost all of her screen time naked , so I wasn't disappointed . So if you're a fan of B-grade sci fi / horror give this one a look-just don't expect the intensity of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and " Eaten Alive " . .
Roddy McDowall plays the professor Sorenson who juices up a baboon with brain serum so he'll be calmer , unfortunately he makes a mistake and instead of injecting the right serum , he injects the serum that turns him into a bloodthirsty predator . " Shakma " is a much better film than Tom Logan's awful slasher " The Night Brings Charlie " . It's full of violent animal action , mostly the baboon attacking and killing medical scientists and the other animals in the lab . " Shakma " offers a nice amount of blood and gore and the killings are pretty brutal . The acting is solid , the score is amazing and the baboon is downright aggressive . Overall this is an immensely enjoyable animal-on-the-loose horror flick that should satisfy genre enthusiasts . Give it a chance . .
A giant mutated Tasmanian Devil is stolen from a lab by two eco-activists and escapes near an old cemetery where a group of unsuspecting college students are making a zombie film . The hideous creature takes up residence in the old mining tunnels beneath the graveyard , feasting on both the living and the dead . Meanwhile , the two scientists responsible for the deformed creature are desperately searching the countryside witnessing the carnage of their precious creation . Very gory monster movie with predictable storyline and terrible acting . " Cemetery Gates " is a campy horror film and it offers copious amounts of blood . The sequence where a peyote-stoned hiker sees the monster as a purple cartoon character being serenaded by singing birds is hilarious and there is the dumbest blonde bimbo in recent cinematic history . A good , old-fashioned blood n ' guts creature romp .
A psychotic man named Brandon Poole played by Tom Dugan , mad at the female race because he's contracted the AIDS virus , travels around in his pickup truck raping and infecting women with the disease . He works for a moving company , picks his next two victims , aspiring models Carrie and Melissa , when he moves their belongings into a new apartment in Los Angeles . When in the apartment during the moving phase , Brandon drugs the milk in the refrigerator and returns that night to find them passed out on the floor . He breaks into the apartment and he spits through a plastic tube directly into Carrie's nose and then cuts his wrist and bleeds into Melissa's mouth . He then rapes Carrie and when he hears her baby crying in the next room , he screams to Carrie , " I have news for you , slut . Your kid is an orphan ! " . . . " Perfect Victims " is not an easy film to stomach . It's pretty sleazy and depraved . The idea of AIDS-infected misogynist is repulsive enough to make some viewers disturbed . Tom Dugan is particularly memorable in a truly demented performance . .
Franco Prosperi's " The Wild Beasts " is a fairly routine Italian horror flick about nature gone nuts . The real animals were used in this movie and in many cases killed just for the sake of this Italian shocker . The animal attack scenes are very gory , but the photography by Franco Delli Colli is too murky . The use of animals in " The Wild Beasts " is quite stunning , unfortunately the acting is truly horrible . Still it's nice to see Lorraine De Selle of " Cannibal Ferox " and " House on the Edge of the Park " fame in the main role as a professor . There is also a really tense sequence where a cheetah chases a VW bug down the road and a scene where some rats are burned off a windshield in slow motion . So if you are a fan of Italian horror cinema give this one a look . .
A teacher and his five female students are attacked by a monster with neon-green eyes . The teacher escapes but his students are completely dismembered . He soon discovers the monster is worshipped by a cult whose ambition is to rule the world and tear the clothes off young girls . " The Holy Virgin Vs The Evil Dead " is a campy soft porn / horror flick that mixes martial arts with shocks and sleaze . The final bit which shows dozens of nude young women in the village is amazing . The film is action-packed and filled with excellently choreographed martial arts fight sequences . There is also a nice amount of violence , so fans of crazy Hong Kong cinema will be pleased . Overall , this lovely Category III flick delivers the goods . Check it out . .
" The Pit and the Pendulum " is the second of Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe's adaptations with a screenplay by Richard Matheson . Vincent Price's performance is an obvious highlight of the film . Legendary horror actresses Luana Anders ( " Dementia 13 " ) and Barbara Steele ( " Shivers " , " Silent Scream " , " Black Sunday " ) co-star in this extremely atmospheric chiller . To sum up , " The Pit and the Pendulum " is one of Roger Corman's finest offerings-it's creepy , unsettling and extremely entertaining . A masterpiece that easily gets !
Gunji Kawasaki's 1997 movie " Juvenile Crime " aka " Schoolgirl in Cement " was based on the same real-life murder case as Katsuya Matsumura's 1995 movie " Concrete-Encased High School Girl Murder Case " and Hiromu Nakamura's 2004 movie " Concrete " . It has been mistaken for Matsumura's movie by a number of bootleggers . In November of 1988 four young men abducted and held Furuta for several weeks in the house of one of the captors . The girl was violently raped and subjected to torture and sexual degradation for example she was forced to masturbate . On 4th January 1989 four sadists beat her with an iron barbell , poured lighter fluid on her legs , arms , face and stomach and immolated her . She died later that day of shock and her mutilated corpse was hidden in an oil-drum filled with cement . " Juvenile Crime " is an incredibly sleazy and unpleasant film loaded with scenes of sexual violence , rape and abuse . It purely exploits the brutal murder of Junku Furuta , unlike Katsuya Matsumura's supremely nihilistic and overall better " Concrete-Encased High School Girl Murder Case " . .
" Night of the Hunted " stars French porn star Brigitte Lahaie . In fact , many of the cast members in this slow-moving production were porn actors at the time of its frantic filming . This film is certainly different than Rollin's usual lesbian vampire flicks , but it's not as memorable as for example " Lips of Blood " or " Fascination " . Lahaie plays an amnesiac hitchhiker who can't remember who she is or where she came from . Most of the film takes place in a modern apartment complex , where Lahaie is being held by some kind of medical group that's treating a number of people with a similar condition . Anyway , she escapes from the monolithic office tower where the affected people are held . On a highway outside of town , she meets a young man , who stops and picks her up . " Night of the Hunted " offers plenty of nudity , unfortunately the pace is extremely slow . The atmosphere is horribly sad and the relationship between Brigitte Lahaie and another asylum inmate Dominique Journet is well-developed . Still " Night of the Hunted " is too dull to be completely enjoyable . Give it a look only if you are a fan of Jean Rollin's works . and that's being kind .
Masaru Konuma's " Woman in the Box 2 " tells the story of the manager of a ski resort who kidnaps a beautiful Japanese woman , subjects her to various forms of sexual degradation and keeps his victim in a wood box in the basement . " Woman in the Box 2 " is also known under the title of " Captured for Sex 4 " . The film is not as rough and depraved as " The Woman in the Box : Virgin Sacrifice " , but still offers some delicious sleaze plus a little bit of rape . Unfortunately my copy of this sickie is heavily censored optically , so I didn't enjoy this obnoxious piece of filth as much as I wanted . Still if you consider yourself a rabid fan of Japanese exploitation " Woman in the Box " series is a blast . .
Alisa escapes her obsessed and incestuous father by jumping into the sea and washing up on the beach and heads into the city to start her life from the beginning . Harumi lives with her uncaring husband and perverse mother-in-law but leaves to find the love and affection she isn't getting at home . By fate-and some bizarre events-the two ladies meet and hope to find what they are looking for together . " Rafureisha " is a more light-hearted pinku flick from the director of " Hitozuma Collector " , " Lolita Vibrator Torture " and " Naked Blood " . There is rape , incest and plenty of sex and nudity plus some truly surreal moments including an adult baby being attacked with a chainsaw . Overall if you are a fan of clinical works of Sato give this one a look-I prefer more darker and disturbing movies by this infamous Japanese Cronenberg . .
" Girl Hell 1999 " aka " Injured Murder Rape Film " is another nasty film from Daisuke Yamanouchi's oeuvre . I own this sickie in Japanese , so the plot is not fully understandable for me , but here we go : a girl enjoys riding her bike and she meets a homeless lady in a field who is breastfeeding a doll ( actual milk comes out ) . One day she comes back home and she sees her father raping her mother who is bandaged almost head to toe . A rich pervert is stalking her and she encounters two teenagers on a murder and rape rampage . Japanese exploitation director Daisuke Yamanouchi specializes in making obscure and very nasty pinku eiga oriented films filled with sadistic rape and sexual abuse . " Girl Hell 1999 " has a feeling of " Red Room " movies and " Mu Zan E " as it offers plenty of nihilism . An interesting curio for fans of ero gro . All others should avoid it . .
The premise of " Nightmare Detective " is very interesting : A Japanese detective investigates two mysterious and very bloody suicides , somehow connected as the two victims dialed " 0 " on their mobiles moments before their death . The detective comes to learn of a man who has the supposed ability to manipulate people's dreams and if the case is going to be solved the detective succumbs to the realization that she must dial the mysterious " 0 " herself . . . " Nightmare Detective " is the film about dreams , alternate realities and suicides in Japan . The viewer will be trapped in a myriad of dreams within dreams and alternating worlds . Too much shaky camera movements sometimes irritated me , but the visuals are splendid and the suicides are quite disturbing with lots of blood spilled . As a fan of Tsukamoto's unique visions I wasn't disappointed with " Nightmare Detective " .
" The Hunger " ( 1983 ) by Tony Scott is a stylish vampire flick filled with some wonderful visuals . The film is excellently acted-a stunningly beautiful Catherine Deneuve is truly memorable as Miriam-an ageless vampire and former Egyptian queen . There is plenty of blood and vampire lesbian sex , so everyone who is into horror films or Goth music should see this cult flick . The opening scene with Bauhaus playing " Bela Lugosi is Dead " is priceless !
" Alone in the Dark " is one of the better horror movies of the 80's . Some homicidal maniacs break out of an asylum and terrorize a psychiatrist's family . The cast is good , especially Martin Landau and Jack Palance are really memorable . There is a fair amount of blood and gore as well . The film is really enjoyable , so if you like slasher movies you can't miss it ! My other recommendations from early 80's : " Just Before Dawn " , " Maniac " , " The Prowler " , " The Mutilator " , " The Final Terror " , " The Burning " etc .
Mark is a blind boy living with his sister Christine in Venice . During a funeral Mark has another in a series of recent visions of a man with a cane , only this time the man is with a woman and a dog that is eating a decayed arm . Christine is openly unsympathetic to these visions and resents having to look after her brother . Mark and Christine are orphans and are staying with their grandmother , but when grandmother is killed in a bizarre fire accident their mother's family , the mysterious Winters become their guardians and Mark and Christine go to stay at their house . " Damned in Venice " is a neglected gem . It offers some genuine shocks and a nice amount of female nudity . The Venetain location sets are gloomy , decayed and oppressive and there is a bit of gore including pretty nasty scene of child murder . It's great to see Lorraine DeSelle and Olga Karlatos of " Zombi 2 " fame in the small roles . .
" Killer Klowns from Outer Space " ( 1988 ) by Stephen Chiodo is a horror movie so ridiculous that it's hard to dislike it . What makes it work so well is that it successfully toys with our expectations . Some people just hate clowns , and this movie exaggerates everything that makes them scary . The plot involves some really creepy aliens who look like clowns . They have come to our planet to turn people into food . The clowns capture their victims in cocoons made of cotton candy , their guns look like colorful toy pistols , their pies are acidic , their popcorns turn into snake-like creatures and their ship is a circus tent . Anyway , this crazy film is extremely entertaining . The make-up is beyond grotesque and the clowns look very creepy . The film received a cult status many years ago and it's easy to see why . So if you are a fan of twisted and bizarre horror films give this one a chance . .
Black magic , possession and bizarre deaths turn a normal family's life into a non-stop nightmare . The terror begins in the Belgian Congo , as an unsuspecting young girl named Felice boards a train for what will become a strange , supernatural voyage . Twenty-five years later , Felice , a sensuous fashion model , suddenly appears in New York to visit her teenage niece . Although Amy is excited to meet her aunt , the arrival of this mysterious relative strangely coincides with a gruesome series of violent deaths . " The Kiss " by Pen Densham is a pretty decent horror flick . The acting is surprisingly good , the killings are creative and quite gruesome and the climax is reasonably effective , albeit a little bit goofy . Polish horror queen Joanna Pacula appears nude and looks incredibly hot . So if you like horror films with a sprinkle of eroticism give this one a look . .
" And Soon the Darkness " is a slow-moving , but still surprisingly spooky horror film about a pair of women bicycling through rural France who run into a vicious rape-killer . Most of the movie is set on a sunny road , but the settings provide a claustrophobic atmosphere . The acting is okay , and Robert Fuest ( " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " ) directs with a sure hand . It's nice to see also horror regular Sandor Eles in the cast . . Recommended .
An insane man is shot dead by two cops , Kung and Hsiao , after he refused to listen to them and tried to kill a woman . After that , the two cops have to deal with the ghosts and Hsiao's girlfriend is haunted as well . . . " Possessed " by David Lai is an enjoyable HK possession flick . The film is not as intense and gruesome as " Flesh and the Bloody Terror " or " Calamity of Snakes " , but the skinning sequence is quite nasty and memorable . Throw in also some unwarranted sex scenes , ghostly rape and a requisite battling back against the spirits and you got yourself a fairly good time despite . " Possessed " is available separately or bundled together with the sequel , unfortunately the regarded " Possessed II " is quite heavily cut compared to other Hong Kong video versions . .
Ran Masaki plays a beautiful teacher who is transferred to a remote mountain school where she is gang-raped and abused by the male students . She is also turned into sex slave and subjected to sexual torture by bondage freaks . Masahito Segawa's " Beautiful Teacher in Torture Hell " is not as nasty as its lurid title suggests . Of course there is plenty of rape and sado-sexual violence , but the film never reaches the level of nastiness of " Captured for Sex 2 " or " All Women Are Whores " . The plot is interesting and offers some surprises and the acting is decent . All in all , if you are pinku eiga completist you can't miss it-just don't expect something totally depraved or disturbing . .
" Serial Mom " is a wonderful black comedy about perfect housewife turned serial killer . The mom is played perfectly by Kathleen Turner in one of the best performances of her career . Matthew Lillard is very memorable as a young horror freak . There is a bit of gore and some scenes are rather tasteless , so some people may be offended . The short clips from " Blood Feast " , " Strait-Jacket " and " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " are also a nice touch . Highly recommended , especially if you like John Waters movies .
Peter Cushing stars as the evil Baron Frankenstein who , driven out of his homeland of Bohemia , has set up shop in an English boarding house , where he blackmails the lovely Miss Spengler , who has inherited proprietorship of the establishment from her ailing mother , and Miss Spengler's dashing young fiancé Carl into helping him with his diabolical experiments . Through Frankenstein's great good planning or great good fortune , Carl is a doctor employed at the mental hospital in which resides the infamous Dr . Brandt , Frankenstein's one time research associate and the very man Frankenstein came to England to see , now a hopeless madman . With Carl's help , Frankenstein plans to abduct Dr . Brandt and cure his insanity . . . " Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed " by Terence Fisher is brilliantly directed film . The script by Ben Batt is truly intelligent and Freddie Jones's creature is the most interestingly complex and well played of all the Hammer's Frankenstein monsters-indeed it is the only one to come anywhere near Mary Shelley's novel and her conception of an intelligent and literate creation come to taunt its creator for the condition inflicted on it . Give this one a look . .
Se-jin Oh ( So-young Ko ) , a lonely , single career woman who hasn't much of a social life . One day , while walking home from work Se-jin encounters a creepy woman in red who throws herself in front of an oncoming train ? while trying to drag Se-jin along with her . She survives , but the ghost of the woman come back to haunt her . It seems that people are dying in the apartment complex across from Se-jin's , all of the deaths coming precisely at 9 : 56 p . m . Admittedly " 9 : 56 " is highly derivative . It borrows heavily from " Ringu " , " A Tale of Two Sisters " and " Phone " and references Hitchcockian " Rear Window " many times . Fortunately the underlying theme of the film is surprisingly dark as it revolves around the physical and emotional abuse of beautiful crippled girl ( Hie-jin Jang ) . The film is impressive to look at and offers a few genuine scares . Oh , and Korean actresses are jaw-droppingly gorgeous . I'd love to visit South Korea one day . ; )
17 year-old Billy Whitney feels alienated in his upper-class Beverly Hills home . He hears a tape that seems to indicate that his entire family are having secret orgies . People appear dead one moment but are alive the next and then Billy's girlfriend's body appears to twist into abnormal positions . His parents insist Billy is imagining everything and try to commit him to an institution . Billy slowly discovers that his parents and the people around him belong to a different breed of people , a secret inbred Society who are capable of melding and shifting their bodies . " Society " is one hell of a bizarre film . The conclusion scenes with gruesome and unsettling special effects by Screaming Mad George are truly startling and gooey . There is also some nudity and sex scenes . Check out this weird and surreal splatter flick .
Jennifer played by Fiona Horsey is pregnant and about to be married to Alan ( Andrew Southern ) , the man of her dreams . Unfortunately for her witnesses to a series of brutal castration murders point to Jennifer . A pair of detectives discover that Jennifer has a murderous twin sister named Norah , who enjoys butchering and castrating men during sex . " Twisted Sisters " is a pretty tasteless and wickedly funny exploitation film that offers some gore and a decent amount of sleaze . Horsey is great when playing the murderous Norah and equally good at conveying the innocent victim . The death by firework is easily the film's highlight . Overall , I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you liked " Penetration Angst " or " Lovesick : Sick Love " . .
" Blood Rage " starts with one twin named Terry who butchers Maddy's boyfriend with an axe when he's ten years old . He puts the axe in his brother's Todd hand so he'll get the blame and so the good brother goes to mental asylum . I guess the good brother never bothered telling his side of the story , because ten years later he's still locked up . One day he escapes though and the evil Terry picks that day to wander around his apartment complex hacking teenagers up with a machete . This obscure slasher flick is quite gory . It is loaded with gratuitous nudity and really bloody murders , so I'm not complaining . The premise of is far-fetched and pretty weak , but if you are a real slasher fan give this one a look . .
When I found this film in my local videostore I expected it to be another cheesy American vampire film in the same vein of " The Lost Boys " ( 1987 ) . To my surprise " To Die for " is a really good movie . It's a little bit corny at times , but still there are enough stylish set-pieces and surprises to satisfy vampire enthusiasts . This is a perfect mix of romance and horror and it's surprisingly gory at times . Highly recommended .
Along with Dario Argento's " Suspiria " ( 1977 ) this is one of the most dream-like horror movies ever made . I love this one , although I still think that " Suspiria " is better . The cast is excellent , especially young Sarah Patterson as a Rosaleen , who simply steals the show . The transformation scenes are pretty gruesome and effective , and the film looks wonderful-great imagery ! More fairy tale than horror " The Company of Wolves " is a must-see for all horror fans , who doesn't mind something different .
16-year-old Candy Phillips is brutally abducted by a trio of amateur criminals hoping for a hasty ransom exchange . Burying their innocent captive alive in the hills of Southern California with only a small tube for air , the threesome-sultry blond Jessi , her sadistic brother Alan and maladjusted Army vet Eddy-suspect things aren't as they appear when Candy's father doesn't show at their agreed rendezvous . Growing anxious as paranoia sets in ' the kidnappers fear their meticulous plan is crumbling and begin a downward spiral into depravity , mutilation and cold-blooded murder-with Candy helplessly trapped in the middle . " The Candy Snatchers " is a classic exploitation flick . The script by Bryan Gindoff is surprisingly intelligent , the cast is great and there are some violent set-pieces . The film is obviously influenced by the Charles Manson murders , so if you are into 70's grindhouse exploitation cinema give it a look . .
Clutch is a former boxer who lives in an apartment on Mulberry Street in New York . With his friend Coco they eagerly await for Clutch's daughter Casey to return home from Iraq . We also meet the other tenants in this dilapidated complex Charlie and Frank who are a couple of old timers and a bartender Kay and her teenage son . Unfortunately their place of living becomes hell , when New Yorkers mysteriously turn into bloodthirsty rat creatures . " Mulberry Street " is a pleasant surprise . It plays like the cross between " 28 Days Later " , " Feast " and Spanish horror hit " Rec " . Mickle uses quick shots , music video style editing and plenty of gore to make a surprisingly memorable and decent horror film . The action is fast paced and the creatures look creepy . .
The survivor from the " Hostel " Paxton is quickly decapitated and the film follows three young and supple female art students heading for a relaxing weekend at a Slovakian spa . And where better to stay than an inexpensive hostel ? Of course the three girls are finally abducted and taken to the torture house . Roth introduces the other side of the torture business as we follow two friends who have paid to maim and kill . In my opinion " Hostel 2 " is actually tamer than the original . There is some nasty gore on display including throat slashing via scythe and castration ( an obvious nod to Joel M . Reed's exploitation classic " Bloodsucking Freaks " ) , but Roth does show some restraint here , even cutting away to make one demise occur off camera . The film is also more funny and amusing than the first one . Overall , it's a pretty decent follow-up , so give it a look . .
Ted Bundy was one of the most infamous serial killers in the criminal history of US . He murdered numerous young women across the United States between 1974 and 1978 . His total number of victims is unknown . After over a decade of vigorous denials , Bundy eventually confessed to over 30 murders . Matthew Bright's " Ted Bundy " is based on his gruesome activities . Technically the movie is very good and on the most part , the actors are really convincing , but " Ted Bundy " is nowhere near as shocking and disturbing as " Henry : Portait of a Serial Killer " or my personal cult favourite " Angst " . Horror fans might get a kick out of this one because Tom Savini does the special effects makeup and has a small part in the film . Overall , I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you are into exploitation cinema . .
Neil Marshall's " Dog Soldiers " is actually one of the best horror movies made in 2002 . It's fast-paced , bloody and insanely violent . The body count is really high and the action is very exciting . A company of British soldiers on a routine training mission finds that they are being hunted by a pack of werewolves . The bloodbath ensues , and the few soldiers remaining after the first attack-Sergeant Wells ( Sean Pertwee ) , Pvt . Cooper ( Kevin McKidd ) and a few others . They are saved by a mysterious local girl , Megan ( Emma Cleasby ) and hole up in a remote farmhouse . " Dog Soldiers " is not as good as " Ginger Snaps " , but still delivers plenty of blood and guts . The acting is surprisingly decent and the direction is well-handled . Check it out . .
" The Brides of Fu Manchu " is the second of five Fu Manchu movies produced by Harry Alan Towers and starring Christopher Lee . The film is definitely the most entertaining of all the Fu Manchu films . The production values are top notch and the film is well-directed and acted . This time Fu Manchu wants to conquer the world ( " In a few moments , the entire world will capitulate to me . This is the destiny of Fu Manchu . " - Fu Manchu ) . Fu Manchu's new evil plan is to send explosive energy via sound waves to small receivers placed in various cities throughout the world . It's up to Nayland Smith ( Douglas Wilmer ) to stop him . . . Anyway I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you like British horror / crime cinema . All the actresses starring in it are beautiful , especially Tsai Chin , the evil daughter of Fu Manchu . Fu Manchu returns a year later in " The Vengeance of Fu Manchu " ( 1967 ) .
" Bhoot " is a supernatural horror movie set in urban jungle of Bombay . Vishal ( Ajay Devgan ) , a stock analyst and his wife Swati ( Urmila Matondkar ) move into a new apartment . The fact that the previous occupant died jumping off from the balcony doesn't deter Vishal . He doesn't inform his wife about that tragedy . Eventually , she finds out and then creepy things do happen . She loses sleep and begins to experience strange incidents , illusions and nightmares . The truth is horrifying . " Bhoot " is a wonderfully suspenseful horror film made by Ram Gopal Verma ( " Raat " ) . The cinematography is breathtaking and the atmosphere is so thick that you could cut it with a chainsaw . The climax is pretty disappointing , though . A must-see for fans of Hindi horror . .
Takashi Miike's " Dead or Alive : Hanzaisha " left me speechless . The opening sequence is incredible in its style-we have strippers at work , several bloody shoot-outs , a gangster getting his throat slashed while sodomizing a young man in a public toilet etc . The finale is also amazing-I was literally blown away ! The film is strangely amoral-check out especially the scene in which two punks making animal porn try feverishly to excite an Alsatian dog so it can mount naked girl in their presence . The film is not as violent and sadistic as the other Miike's works like " Visitor Q " , but there are some really strong images that will surely linger in the memory . The acting is very good , the direction is well-handled and the film is hallucinogenic at times . All in all if you're fed up with predictable Hollywood's action trash check this one out !
Jemima is back in this gruesome and wickedly funny sequel directed with skills and resolution by Uisdean Murray . This time she dates with Raul , but little does she know that Raul hides an evil and sinister secret . I was in Warsaw during Horror Fiesta Film Festival where " Jemima : Photographic Trophy " had its world premiere . The film is even more memorable than " Jemima : Dating Is Murder " . Again , it offers some wonderful moments of black humour and a little bit of gore . Joy McAvoy is truly believable as a charming female-serial killer . The musical score is brilliant and the film is extremely well-made . Uisdean Murray is obviously a very talented director and I can't wait for his new projects . Recommended !
This gory horror movie obviously influenced by Stuart Rosenberg's " Amityville Horror " ( 1979 ) , " Friday the 13th " ( 1980 ) and Dario Argento's stylish works really scared me when I first saw it . " Superstition " is fast-paced , unintentionally hilarious at times , but it can be pretty scary as well . There's enough gruesome gore and violence to satisfy all splatter fans , and the score is also quite effective . My favourite kill scene is where a young man is chopped in half with sliding windows . Among the other gory highlights there's also a head exploding in the microwave , a young woman , who has a spike hammered into her forehead and many more . Anyway , if you're consider yourself a horror buff , give this one a try . . Highly recommended .
" Blind Dead " tetralogy ( 1971-1975 ) is among the best and most famous Spanish horror films of their time . These movies are surprisingly well-made and creepy . The best feature of the films is their title menace : the Blind Dead , mummified zombies which rise from their graves to drink the blood of their victims . " Night of the Seagulls " / " La Noche de las Gaviotas " is regarded as the weakest film of " Blind Dead " series ( the other three movies are " Tombs of the Blind Dead " , " Return of the Blind Dead " and " Ghost Galleon " ) . I think that this film is unfairly criticized-there is actually plenty of atmosphere here . Particularly effective is the sense of stoic dread that hangs over the village . Every seven years , these people must give up seven of their children , so that the others might live . Unfortunately the Templars are treated with far less mystery and awe than they are in other films . Still the climax is quite suspenseful and the Templars look terrifying . Overall I enjoyed this film , so if you liked this highly original and imaginative series give this one a look .
Yuu is living with her Ryusei horse on the edge of sea . One day a young researcher and three artists arrive and they disturb Yuu's quasi-telepathic relation with a horse . " Staple Girl " is less provocative and scandalous than " Horse Woman Dog " , but still offers some unpleasant scenes including the masturbation with a severed horse penis . One again Sato shows the world as the cold , morbid and unhealthy place filled with sexual pleasure and pain . There is a bit of extreme violence and the images of mannequins buried in the sand are strikingly haunting . Sato introduces a topic which will reappear in his most famous and goriest film " Naked Blood " that of the telepathic communication . .
A Japanese policewoman is raped by a black-gloved truck driver in a very stylish and unsettling rape scene . After the sexual assault the woman becomes obsessed with rough sex and rape . " Attacked ! " is not as vicious as " Assault ! Jack the Ripper " or " Rape ! 13th Hour " , but sleaze comes quick and heavy in this misogynistic exploitation classic . The classical score is awesome and welcome change from usual jazz scores of Hasebe's violent pink flicks . For fans of Nikkatsu's Roman Pornos or pinku eiga cinema in general " Attacked ! " is a must-see . Finally big thanks for fertilecelluloid for giving me an opportunity to watch this unfairly forgotten and ignored violent pink . .
This superbly stylish giallo and gripping precursor to " Don't Look Now " ( 1973 ) about a child murderer is one of the finest Italian thrillers I have ever seen . George Lazenby shines in a lead role , while wonderful Anita Strindberg more than makes up for it with charm and gusto . It's also very nice to see Nicoletta Elmi ( " Demons " , " Deep Red " ) in a small role . The killings are well-handled and fairly gory and the score by Ennio Morricone is simply masterful ! Highly recommended .
George A . Romero ( " Dawn of the Dead " , " Day of the Dead " , " Martin " ) after huge success with " Dawn of the Dead " directed his another masterpiece-an anthology of five short stories called " Creepshow " . The script was written by Stephen King , and the special effects were made by F / X wizard Tom Savini ( " Martin " , " Maniac " , " The Prowler " ) . The first story " Father's Day " is so-so-nothing special , but the zombie looks terrific ; the second story " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril " is the funniest , Stephen King steals the show as a Jordy , a goofy farmer , who finds a strange meteor ; the third story " Something To Tide You Over " is my favourite-it's ghastly , creepy , funny and a little bit disturbing , again great make-up of the drowned zombies ; the fourth story " The Crate " is the longest and goriest-there's a lot of suspense and plenty of gore mixed with black humour . Finally we are getting to the last story " Creeping Up On You " - an enjoyable story about cockroaches with some rather gross special effects . Overall I must say that I love " Creepshow " - surely they don't make them like this anymore . This is a REAL horror , not a teen-oriented garbage like " Scream " or " Urban Legend " . Check it out .
Following the life of a murderer and paedophile , " Divided Into Zero " juxtaposes three important stages of a diseased mind : aged 10 , as a disturbed boy who suffered the loss of his parents ; a dangerous 30-year-old leaving behind hellish tableaux , attempting to wash away his sins among the company of whores ; and a twisted old hermit of a man who ? at the age of 70 ? kidnaps a girl whom he nails to a wall . " Divided Into Zero " is a cold and deeply disturbing horror short which features plenty of unsettling violence with lashings of paedophilia on display . The killer ? or Wanderer ? defines his tortured feelings in remarkable and passionless detail . Despite knowing the extent of his problems , he performs them with religious conviction . Like " Subconscious Cruelty " , " Divided Into Zero " is a bleak and transgressive film . Recommeded only for more open-minded viewers . .
" From a Whisper to a Scream " is an excellent horror / anthology which takes place in the small town of Oldfield , Tennessee . Julian White ( as always brilliant Vincent Price ) relates four hideous stories to the news reporter Bess Chandler ( Susan Tyrrell ) . In the first one for example , a horror veteran Clu Gulager gives an immensely entertaining performance as a mild-mannered , but suitably creepy old bachelor who takes care of his pathetic sister and who also happens to have necrophiliac intentions toward younger women . The last story is truly disturbing-it has a group of Yankee soldiers during the Civil War who run into a group of psychotic Rebel kids , whose parents were all killed in the war and all hell breaks loose ! ! Despite the emphasis on gore and some pretty vile subject matter , the film is well-made and interesting . Highly recommended .
Mena Suvari plays Brandi , the overworked nurse's aid who , on the verge of a promotion , crosses the line when driving drunk and drugged after a night out partying she hits a homeless man ( Stephen Rea ) and ends up more concerned about her promotion than his life . Stuck in the windshield of her car badly injured homeless man is along for the ride as she drives home and parks the car in the garage with the hope that he will finally succumb to his injuries . Fantastic horror film from always reliable Stuart Gordon . The gore is quite disturbing with the emphasis on broken bones and physical pain . The story is well-constructed , the acting by Rea and Suvari is strong and there are several moments of black humour to relieve the tension . Very erotic sex scene with Mena Suvari too !
" Raping ! " is another very rare pinku eiga rape film made with gallons of style by Yasuharu Hasebe . It's ultra-sleazy and surprisingly comical as the main heroine is raped constantly on her way to Tokyo . The rapists are for example a trucker , an owner of love hotel , a mechanic , a doctor , even the cops . There is also a homosexual gang-rape scene of a would-be rapist by three leather-clad bikers . Despite of its short running time " Raping ! " looks terrific . The acting is fine and the jazz score is brilliant . Of course " Yaru ! " is not as upsetting as Yasuharu Hasebe's earlier pinky violence flicks , however fans of cinematic filth should give it a look as soon as possible . Highly recommended , especially for pinku eiga newbies .
Karl Malden stars as a blind man with a talent for solving puzzles who teams-up with reporter Carlo Giordani ( James Franciscus ) to launch a private investigation into a string of peculiar murders , all of which seem to involve a dubious genetic research facility . The killer soon becomes wise to the duo's plans and will do whatever it takes to stop them from reporting to the police . " Cat's Nine Tails " is the second giallo made by Italian maestro Dario Argento . The film is well-acted and very suspenseful . Karl Malden is awesome as the blind puzzle designer . " Cat's Nine Tails " is even less bloody than Argento's stunning debut " The Bird with the Crystal Plumage " , so gore-hounds expecting vicious murders in the vein of " Deep Red " or " Tenebre " will be disappointed . Still there are some truly unnerving stalking sequences and subjective killer's view camera shots . The score by Ennio Morricone is as always splendid . .
After reading some negative comments on this film it seems to me that many of those reviewers hate horror movies . If you don't like horror , then leave this genre alone ! ! ! Go back and watch some Hollywood big-budget trash ! ! " Children of the Corn " is an enjoyable horror film with a few creepy scenes and some good shocks . The acting is decent enough , and the atmosphere of an isolated town ( Gatlin ) is well-captured . I've seen the first four parts of this series and they are not really bad ( want some crap-check out " Witchcraft " series ) Enough said-try this one if you enjoy watching horror movies . Very atmospheric score too !
Karl Horak and his wife Bozhena are unable to have a child ; the man carves a stump of wood into something that resembles a baby , and little Otik comes to life . Bozhena loves it with all she has and they name Otik . But Otik's appetite grows and grows , it soon devouring the cat , the postman and neighbors . Only the neighbor's inquisitive daughter realizes that the Horak's have given birth to an Otesanek , a creature from fairytale that supposedly grew in size devouring everything around it . " Little Otik " by Jan Svankmajer is a wickedly humorous film . Svankmajer's traditional obsession with rampant consumerism and folk tales is clearly visible . Veronika Zilkova gives an absolutely hilarious performance , treating the piece of wood as though it were a baby with steadfast certainty-bathing it , clipping its nails , changing its diapers , rubbing cream on its butt . A must-see for fans of surreal world of Jan Svankmajer .
The plot of " 28 Weeks Later " goes like that : survivors start arriving home in ' District One ' , a safe zone established on the Isle of Dogs in London . Engineer Don , who survived the Rage plague in ways that haunt his sleep meets his kids as they return from Spain , where they'd been fortunate enough to be vacationing when infection broke out ; the family reunion is uneasy . Army doctor Scarlet is deeply troubled about what she's seeing in the blood samples in her microscope . American sniper Doyle is uncomfortable with this strange duty babysitting returnees in this desolate city . Soon all the hell breaks loose , when the freshly arrived carrier starts spreading infection in ' District One ' . . . Very bleak , action packed and bloody sequel to apocalyptic hit " 28 Days Later " . The escape through the pitch black tunnels , shot partially through the night vision lens of a sniper rifle compounds the feelings of fear and dread . The use of helicopter blades as a weapon , shot from the pilot's vantage point adds to the desperation . And without a doubt , the sweeping shots of London deserted and desolate are unnerving and eerie . .
" Visions of Suffering " is a vast improvement over " Nails " in every way possible . The plot of this complex surreal piece is pretty hard to follow , but the film is loaded with scenes of hypnotic beauty which contrast with ugly and disturbing horror . I was torn apart from reality and found himself in the world full of nightmares , murders and drugs . The visual effects are very well done and extremely grotesque . The acting is natural and Alexander Shevchenko is outstanding as the tormented main character . I can't believe that such genuinely trippy film was made in Russia , where independent filmmakers are not respected . A hallucinogenic nightmare . .
Lucio Fulci's " Zombi 2 " is by far his most famous contribution to the genre . The make-up effects by Gianetto de Rossi are amazing and the direction by maestro Fulci creates unremitting vile monsters and a real sense of decay , horror and hopelessness . The gore in some parts is extreme ( I love especially the scene when Auretta Gay has her throat torn out ) , but this is not the goriest Italian zombie flick ever made . Andrea Bianchi's " Burial Ground " is much more gorier . However I must agree with Trooper8-2 that mainstream American zombie flicks like " Return of the Living Dead " or similar politically correct garbage are nowhere near as explicit as Italian gorefests . The plot is simple : Tisa Farrow and Ian MacCulloch travel to the island of Matool in search of her missing father . Unfortunately for them and their two companions ( Al Cliver and Auretta Gay ) they are thrown into a nightmare of undead . Many people say that " Zombi 2 " is a " Dawn of the Dead " rip-off , I absolutely disagree because other than the presence of the zombies there is nothing in common between the two . Check it out if you're an Euro-horror fan , but if you like American trendy " horror flicks " like " Scream " then stay away . Highly recommended .
I'm so happy that I watched this brilliant gem of a horror movie two days ago . In those politically correct times where idiotic MTV-oriented teen slashers and comedies are made in the US , it is really good to see such original film like " Ginger Snaps " . Why ? Because it has some excellent suspense sequences and a rather high amount of blood and gore . The werewolf is really cool looking , the acting by two lead girls ( Emily Perkins , Katharine Isabelle ) is excellent and the direction is well-handled . " Ginger Snaps " is a pure horror film , that is to be taken seriously . I think it ranks up there with Daniel Attias " Silver Bullet " and Joe Dante's " The Howling " . - a perfect film for the jilted generation !
Roddy McDowall heads the cast of this extremely creepy chiller about four psychic investigators and the dark , brooding mansion called Hell House . It's already destroyed one team of researchers . Now this brave quartet ventures in for another try at unraveling its ghastly secret . With a screenplay by Richard Matheson , adapting his own novel " Hell House " , " The Legend of Hell House " is a very creepy piece of horror that contains enough shocks and surprises for the dedicated horror buffs . The film has strong characters and a compelling story . The acting is excellent and the atmosphere of dread and fear is simply overwhelming . The house itself is a truly scary place filled with dark shadows , creepy corridors and spider webs . " The Legend of Hell House " contains almost no gore , but it scared the hell out of me . Highly recommended . .
" Red to Kill " is one of the classic Category III psycho-sicko flicks . It is about the teacher of retarded children who goes completely crazy in front of color red because of one trauma . He falls in love with one of his students , a childlike teenage girl but soon discovers her red underwear . What follows is an unspeakable acts of terror , rape , self mutilation and very disturbing violence . " Red to Kill " is extremely strong and disturbing piece of horror . This is the kind of film even ' jaded ' HK cinema fans seem to dislike and judge as sick and repellent . Of course it's gratuitous but has also some interesting points and thoughts about society's care for retarded people who can , and sometimes are much more ' human ' and kind than the normal ones . The scene after he brutally raped one of the retarded girls where she is standing alone in the shower traumatised and hacking away at her pubic hair with a razor blade whilst murmuring " dirty . . . dirty . . . dirty ! " is a jaw dropper . So if you're a fan of extreme cinema give this little gem a look . .
" Dressed to Kill " is surely one of the best horror / thriller movies ever made . It's taut , stylish and extremely suspenseful mixture of sex and violence . The acting is pretty good , the orchestral score by Pino Donaggio is unforgettable and there's plenty of surprises to keep thriller fans intrigued . " Dressed to Kill " is a murder mystery that involves a sexually frustrated housewife ( Angie Dickinson ) , her teenage son ( Keith Gordon ) , her psychoanalyst ( Michael Caine ) , and a high price call girl ( Nancy Allen ) . The murderer in the film is a transsexual named Bobbi who is also one of Caine's patients . The film is full of breathtaking moments : the infamous elevator murder scene is extremely stylish and pretty gory as well . Highly recommended .
" Boy Meets Girl " is not as nasty as I expected , but still we have here a pretty disturbing stuff . A man meets a woman in the bar , the two go back to her home and there they decide to watch a porno film . The guy passes out and wakes to find himself strapped to a dentist chair . The woman starts to torture him . . . This artsy shocker is full of brilliant color schemes and there is a lot of atmosphere through out the film . The torture scenes are pretty tame in comparison to " Guinea Pig : Devil's Experiment " ( 1988 ) , but still there is enough shocking scenes to satisfy fans of extreme stuff . Recommended !
" Forced Entry " is a very low budget hard core rape / porn / horror which contains some of the nastiest and ugliest rape scenes ever filmed . Truly the rapes are filmed in hard core and are very uncompromising . In the film , the rapist played convincingly by Harry Reems makes the first victim to give him a blow job telling her that he won't torture her to death , too badly if she does as he says-she'll die anyway , but if she messes with him she'll suffer . He cuts her throat-the second victim is dragged from a shower to a bedroom , thrown on the bed and forced to give a blow job with a gun against her head . He then rapes her from behind and tells her " I didn't enjoy that . . . " and starts cutting her body with a knife and then stabs her in the breast . This murder scene is really nasty and cruel-not for the faint of heart . The dialogue is the worst aspect of the film : what he says is really dirty and unbelievable for example : " Is it starting to bleed in there a little hun ? You don't know what bleedin ' is do you , I'll show you some , I'm gonna ' show you a lot of bleedin ' ! " . Anyway , this film is extremely brutal and vulgar , I was really shocked and disturbed when I first saw this . Nothing is left to imagination , everything is shown in unflinching detail . I can't believe the fuss being made over " I Spit on Your Grave " when this film exists . Meir Zarchi's infamous video nasty is really tame in comparison to this one . Not a film for all tastes , but it pulls no punches with its sheer nastiness . Check it out , if you can handle it .
Gerald Kargl's " Angst " is one of the most depressing and disturbing serial killer movies ever made . It's loosely based on an actual crime case-in 1980 Werner Kniesek from Salzburg horrendously murdered three people . Later he told the judge " I just love it when women shiver in deadly fear because of me . It is like an addiction , which will never stop " . " Angst " is often compared to John McNaughton's " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " , but it's even more unsettling and hopeless . The film is shot with a strong use of high-angle shots and hand-held camera-work . It tells the story of disorganized serial killer , who is released from prison . First he tries to strangle the female taxi driver , but she manages to kick him out of the car and escapes . The killer flees through the forest until he reaches a huge villa , where the family of three lives . In the orgy of extreme violence he murders them . A disabled and mentally retarded son on wheelchair is slowly drowned in a bathtub in a truly agonizing sequence , a middle-aged mother is strangled in her bedroom and finally her adolescent daughter is stabbed to death with a bread-knife . The killer viciously mutilates her corpse and rapes her post-mortem . All of this is shown in unflinching detail that made me squirm . " Angst " is a hauntingly realistic portrayal of disorganized serial killer on the loose . This disturbed guy is a serious threat to every human being crossing his path . Erwin Leder as the killer is incredibly convincing . The murder sequences are so savage and shocking that you'll need an iron stomach to watch them . The camera work by Zbigniew Rybczynski is simply stunning and the film looks like semi-documentary . " Angst " is easily one of the most gut-wrenching serial killer flicks I have ever seen . It makes " The Silence of the Lambs " and " Seven " look like kindergarten stuff . Highly recommended , but not for the easily disturbed . .
Brian De Palma's " Body Double " is one of my favourite films made in early 80's . This memorable thriller obviously borrows some elements from Alfred Hitchcock's " Verigo " and " Rear Window " , but it's still entertaining and delightfully sleazy . There are some wonderful moments of style-particularly the Indian's attack on stunningly beautiful Deborah Shelton seen through the binoculars . This scene is truly nerve-wracking and gruesome . The acting is excellent and the score by Pino Donaggio is great . " Body Double " carries the audience through a convoluted plot , making the story quite believable and captivating . It's surely not as good as De Palma's earlier releases like " Sisters " , " Carrie " or " Dressed to Kill " , but I wasn't disappointed . Check it out , if you're a fan of murder mysteries .
" Guinea Pig : Flowers of Flesh and Blood " deserves to be called one of the sickest horror films ever made . This notorious pseudo-snuff sickie is about a guy who dressed as a Samurai warrior kidnaps beautiful Japanese woman and hacks her up in excruciating detail , occasionally pausing to recite some hai-ku . This part of " Guinea Pig " series does contain some very convincing gore effects of hands , arms and legs being cut off in unflinching detail . The worst scene for me is the eye-gouging which is the most realistic . The series received a great deal of publicity when American actor Charlie Sheen , believing this one to contain actual murder gave the copy to the FBI . I've seen only this one and " Devil's Experiment " and I enjoyed both of them . So if you like extreme gore and cruelty you won't be disappointed . Even the most-hardened gore-hounds will wince ! Also recommended : Nacho Cerda's " Aftermath " .
