Witless follow-up to " Meet the Parents " is full of slapstick chaos with poor continuity , strained gags , pets used as vulgar visual jokesters , and a screaming toddler . Worse than that , the film has some of the worst writing , directing , and cinematography I've seen all year . Ben Stiller , his lipsticked-mouth always open and his wide eyes rimmed in black , like a raccoon , makes certain his overly-pancaked face is in close-up at all available times ; this must have been contagious , because the cameraman plasters the screen with everybody's mug , which wouldn't be so bad except that their confusion over the stupidity of the plot is magnified . Jokes are flayed around desperately in the hopes of hitting a target ( even the end-credits reel fails ) . Loud instead of funny , everything is underlined and then milked for a chuckle . There are terrible sequences and running jokes in this movie , jokes that are even out of character ( like Robert De Niro and the strap-on breast ) . It doesn't work . As for that bawling infant , who gets HIS share of close-ups too , he learns to talk dirty , which really cracked up the audience I saw " Meet the Fockers " with . from
Writer-director Paul Golding's abysmal , completely forgettable thriller distributed by a major studio ( Columbia ) but filled with low-rent talent . Story has a young boy ( Joey Lawrence ) attempting to save his dad and stepmother from evil , unseen forces within their home . As the stubborn father , Cliff De Young once again gives his usual knucklehead performance ; he has made a specialty out of playing impatient grown-ups who have no ear ( or use ) for the truth , and yet we're supposed to care what happens to the guy ? Lawrence is kept near the verge of hysteria throughout , but this begins to look pretty silly - - especially when there's not much happening plot-wise . from
New York family is the last in their neighborhood to get a television set , which nearly ruins David Niven's marriage to Mitzi Gaynor . Bedroom comedy that rarely ventures into the bedroom ( and nothing sexy happens there anyway ) . Gaynor as an actress has about as much range as an oven - - she turns on , she turns off . Film's sole compensation is a supporting performance by perky Patty Duke , pre - " Miracle Worker " , as Niven's daughter . She's delightful ; " Happy Anniversary " is not . from
Mind-bogglingly bad Disney comedy pits middle-aged sweethearts Chevy Chase and Farrah Fawcett against Fawcett's prankish pre-teen son Jonathan Taylor Thomas ( that smug Keebler elf from the TV sitcom " Home Improvement " ) . After single mom Farrah brings new love-interest Chevy home to meet her kid , Taylor resorts to juvenile tomfoolery to scare the suitor away . . . sound familiar ? Taking its cue from " The Parent Trap " , but blessedly giving us only one child at the helm , this lame-duck script has nowhere to go after the initial set-up . Nice to see Chase and Fawcett together ( the original choices for " Foul Play " ) , but the comic chaos which erupts here is only for undiscriminating viewers . from
" Laughter is a state of mind " says the tag , and I hesitate to comment on Barry Levinson's . What could he have been thinking during the making of " Toys " ? When he watched the rushes , did he see a successful , funny fantasy ? If so , then he's working on a different plane than I . This is an excruciating picture , one in which the production design is 90 % of the thing ( and even the cartoon colors are a disappointment ) . Robin Williams and ( most especially ) Joan Cusack are humiliated as brother and sister of a toy mogul who are bypassed as inheritors of the factory when their dad dies . There's nothing remotely funny ( satirical or slapstick-wise ) on display here . It is uniformly draggy , ugly , and one of the very worst " big " movies ever made . NO STARS from
If 1977's " Exorcist II : The Heretic " did him no favors , it's hard to imagine what thespian extraordinaire Richard Burton saw in this drab exercise in non-thrills . You've seen it all before : Burton plays a writer who discovered at an early age he possesses the power to move inanimate objects through force of his mind ( and you thought " Carrie " had no impact on Hollywood ! ) . Though adapted from a novel by Peter Van Greenaway , " Medusa " plays like recycled goods , though the special effects in the cathedral finale are solid ( if typical ) . Lee Remick is somewhat present as a doctor , but otherwise the supporting cast is extremely weak . Burton is hammy but weary . . . not even telekinesis could save him at this point . from
Masked Los Angeles crime-fighters Rat Pfink a ( nd ) Boo Boo come to the rescue after Rat Pfink's alter-ego , rock ' n roll singer Lonnie Lord , finds out his sweetheart has been kidnapped by hammer-and-chain link wielding street thugs . Director Ray Dennis Steckler wastes a lot of camera film ( and probably a bundle of cash ) filming rear-ends bouncing and cars driving . . . driving . . . driving . He shows unexpected talent with the rock music montages ( especially the first , " You're Running Wild " , where Lonnie and his gal-pal scamper , twist , and play basketball ) . Unfortunately , his sense of humor doesn't match the chilly black-and-white photography ( also by Steckler ) , nor the violent original plot about teenage delinquents . The opening scene of a bar-broad mugged and left for dead on the deserted , early-a . m . streets of L . A . actually has some edge to it ( apart from one of the goons jumping - - surprise ! - - out of a trashcan ) ; but Steckler didn't trust his instincts , and turned the low-budget project into a " Batman " satire . He lacks the verisimilitude to cover his own callow tracks , and the acting , sound effects , over-dubbing , pacing and narrative are each atrocious . from
Sadly lackluster romantic comedy , co-written , directed and starring Billy Crystal , is told in deadly flashbacks . A group of friends recount a colleague's courtship ( and eventual marriage ) to an unfulfilled woman , resulting in comic disasters . French locations and a bright cast do help a little bit , but the screenplay isn't very funny , instead becoming weighed down with cheap , lousy sentiment that doesn't play ( and has more than a whiff of " When Harry Met Sally . . . " besides ! ) . Only a minimum of laughs surface , particularly when William Hickey is on-screen as Debra Winger's aged father . Otherwise , Crystal and Winger are not well-matched and their marital ups-and-downs have a depressive feel , with an uneasy give and take full of failed wisecracks and pregnant pauses . Forget it ! from
The kind of cynical ' 70s western that might have turned John Wayne's stomach : runaway wife Sarah Miles ( as Cat , née Catherine ) hitches a ride with a gang of scurrilous train robbers , and ends up falling in love with their leader . Overwrought picture gives Miles in particular an insulting role ( she can't even mount a horse without falling off ) , and Jack Warden's scummy Dawes gets a bullet wound he'll never forget , but leading man Burt Reynolds slides right through this without ever leaving a trace he was here . Outdoor locations and colorful support from Lee J . Cobb gives mangy , depressing film a slight boost . from
Director Peter Bogdanovich seemed to have it all at one point early in his career , but I can't imagine a worse string of pictures than " At Long Last Love " , " Nickelodeon " , " Daisy Miller " and " Texasville " , not to mention this one , a dud meant for theaters but relegated to dusty bins at the video store . Rob Lowe , outfitted to look like either Cary Grant or perhaps egomaniac Bogdanovich , stumbles around as a juror smitten with murder-suspect Colleen Camp . Camp , as proved in " They All Laughed " ( a Bogdanovich bright spot ) , has the knack for screwball antics , but her character here is too brash and she fails to click with Lowe , whose bumbling is forced - - to say the least . The convoluted plot hangs together by a thread , not helped by a bunch of " lovable " dopes in the supporting cast ( including future Mrs . Bogdanovich , L . B . Straten ) . Cheeky , yes . Successful , no . from
Absolutely atrocious film from producer Joseph E . Levine , here ripping the lid off the Hollywood can but getting nothing out of it except hot air . Ruthless , snarling Stephen Boyd scratches his way up from seamy strip joints ( as manager for the non-blushing Jill St . John ) to the top of the H-wood heap as the world's most constipated actor . Laughable backstage melodrama is high camp , but how can you laugh without feeling sorry for all those embarrassed personalities on the screen - - none more so than Tony Bennett , looking like a basset hound in a tuxedo . The lousy , fifth-rate screenplay is full of now-legendary fruit-loop lines , Elke Sommer shows more skin than talent , and Frank and Nancy Sinatra have a cameo . . . It's not for the squeamish ! from
Had this sequel to 1981's " Arthur " been made immediately following that film's surprise success , maybe audiences would've been interested . Maybe Dudley Moore wouldn't look so stung by the career-bombs he endured throughout the 1980s . Alas , the biggest problem with this draggy , silly comedy is the absence of Steve Gordon , who wrote and directed the original and died shortly thereafter . This film has none of nuances of the first , none of the laughs or warmth , yet it does retain the forced drunken humor of its title character - - and this in itself looked really out of place in sober 1988 . What a shame , everyone is here ( including John Gielgud in a cameo ) but it just doesn't pass . Blame it on a leaden script , a direction with no bounce , and too much time under the bridge for anyone to care anymore . from
Artificial melodrama with a screenplay adapted by Mel Dinelli from his play " The Man " concerns a boarding-house proprietress taking in a troubled handyman who may be homicidal . Despite solid work from Ida Lupino and Robert Ryan ( both trying their best ) , this tedious yarn isn't very inventive within its one primary set ( which quickly becomes visually dull ) and underpopulated cast of characters ( there is however a smart pooch who senses the worst ! ) . Hokey and humorless , with a stilted direction from Harry Horner ( perhaps Lupino should have directed ? ) . Where's all the suspense promised by the ads ? Dinelli also served as a co-producer . from
It must have struck cinematographer Gordon Willis as highly ironic that he would shoot a film with the title " Bright Lights , Big City " . Willis , known for his fabulous work with dark , muted colors and characters in shadows or silhouettes , seems absolutely lost within this night-life milieu , which isn't bright and hardly seems big . Jay McInerney adapted his own 1984 novel about a would-be writer in New York City whose job in the research department of a prominent magazine ( Gotham ! ) is constantly threatened by his drug use , which may stem from a broken marriage and memories of his deceased mother . It's not difficult to pinpoint what went wrong here : although Michael J . Fox may seem well-cast from the outset , it clearly becomes apparent he's in over his head . Fox ( whose plastic voice-over narration was probably supposed to sound hard-boiled ) is too well-scrubbed and corn-fed to be convincing as a party maniac ; acting disoriented by blinking his eyes heavily and tightening his thin mouth , Fox is strictly a morose good-time guy , mourning the separation from fashion model spouse Phoebe Cates . But there's nothing at stake for this kid when he stays up all night ( except for his job at the magazine , which hardly matters to us since the sequences set there are wholly unconvincing ) . Director James Bridges takes an episodic approach to the narrative , but his continuity ( or perhaps the editing ) is sloppy and gummy , and the people in Fox's small circle aren't terribly interesting . And did the movie go through a budgetary crisis ? The weak nightclubbing scenes look barren and cheap ( aside from some city vistas and subway rides , the picture could easily take place in Passaic , New Jersey for all we know ) . When Fox goes out on a blind date with Tracy Pollan , we know instantly these two clean-cut kids will click on their appearance alone : they look like an upscale young couple coming home from a Republican fundraiser . There's nothing dangerous about Michael J . Fox or his approach to this part . He drinks , he snorts , he swears , but he doesn't live the highs and lows of an addict on the edge . Or , is this guy an addict ? There's no visual punch in Bridges ' staging to suggest he's anything more than a spoiled kid looking for a girl to adore him . from
Tony Curtis / Jerry Lewis combination adapted from a play by Marc Camoletti about an American in Paris who is juggling the affections of different sexy stewardesses . Bedroom-comedy isn't smutty , but neither is it particularly witty or funny . The slapstick staging isn't spirited , yet the players react crazily , hoping to sell this fluff on their hearty attempts alone . Perky Dany Saval ( as " Air France " ) is the stand-out amongst the lovely ladies , none of whom gets an actual character to play . Curtis and Lewis might have been an interesting duo under better circumstances ( and with snappier dialogue ) , but this material is beneath them . from
Director Frank Tashlin stretches his anything-for-a-laugh method of comic film-making to the breaking point with this very weak advertising send-up ( with equally dull romantic-confusion underpinnings ) . Tony Randall seems the wrong actor for the part of struggling ad-rep Rockwell Hunter , who gets a buxom beauty queen to shill for a new lipstick - - but at a price . It's supposed to be a riot , but Tashlin , who also adapted the script from George Axelrod's play , can't seem to bring the material ( both farcial and cynical ) into a cohesive whole . It's full of prankish jokes and questionable taste , but the episodic results are loud and forced instead of funny . There's a satirical , promising opening sequence ( brightly prodding the TV commercials of the era ) , but the movie steadily loses steam from there . from
Poorly-written remake of the 1939 John Wayne chestnut has stagecoach full of disparate people encountering personal strife and drama on the treacherous route to Cheyenne . Since the characters are such an obvious lot ( what with a prostitute , a pregnant woman , a bank robber , a wily alcoholic , an outlaw , etc . ) and are written and portrayed as caricatures , there's nobody here to care about . Newcomer Alex Cord broods mightily as the outlaw , but this actorly process of cool non-projection is a snooze by now ; Ann-Margret , as the saloon girl with the shady life , is only comfortable in her carefully-posed close-ups , her line readings rendered false by a peculiarly twangy accent and no conviction in her behavior ( she reverts too easily on being ' lewd ' without giving the character any other dimensions ) . The direction is sloppy , the pacing leaden , and even the Colorado scenery fails to enliven the proceedings . from
The rock-loving teens in this movie don't seem to know anything about making music . We get no information about their musical backgrounds , and their idea of jamming is to feign a version of " Iko Iko " while driving in their stolen van ( I say ' feign ' because the sound of their unison vocals is distinctly studio-enhanced ) . There's one guy in the otherwise all-girl band , and they make him sleep behind a sheet - - out of modesty ? - - and yet the girls themselves are sexually active and think nothing of having sex in that van until the damn thing just about topples over . The movie wants to have it both ways : be a modern look at streetwise teens and be an old-fashioned musical . Justine Bateman works hard in the leading role , but she seems to suffocate under the plastic handling ; newcomer Julia Roberts shows off a nice sense of sarcastic humor , but the movie is an underachiever , with oldies-rock tunes given ' 80s makeovers that wouldn't pass muster on Star Search . from
Brooke Shields in a slightly awkward phase ( she never did go through the braces-and-glasses thing , but she's a skinny smartass here and for her that's awkward enough ) . Her pinball wizardry catches the eye of a con-man and together they take on all-comers . Critics at the time singled out Charles Durning's performance as if he were the Second Coming ; truth is , his role as the all-time pinball champion hits the picture a little too late in the game . It has already exhausted us with its low-rent production and aimless plot line . I did think Brooke showed some spunk here , but she's no Kristy McNichol ( who might have elevated this to a somewhat substantial level , or at least given it some different shadings ) . As it is , " Tilt " is a dim bulb . from
In a blatant attempt to recapture the spirit of James Cagney's 1942 hit " Yankee Doodle Dandy " ( the trailer even promises this to be " the dandiest Yankee Doodle of them all ! " ) comes a highly-concocted story from Irving Wallace about a down-and-out-showman staging a musical revue at a military academy . Corny in the extreme , but hoofing Cagney's still got the goods ; his dance routines liven up the pace of this puff-piece , though they don't exactly make it a memorable vehicle for any of the stars . Virginia Mayo and Doris Day are the gals on hand , and Day's fans will surely be disappointed by her weak musical material and the fact she gets the short shrift in favor of Mayo ( who has the better role and yet still projects all the personality of a fashionable mannequin ) . from
Sickly catcher for a pro-baseball team is cared for by the team's pitcher . Would-be acting showpiece for a group of talented men who are ultimately defeated by the slow-going pace of a melodrama that uses suffering as a noble badge . Mark Harris adapted his own novel , originally filmed as a television drama in the 1950s with Paul Newman . The rough-edged sentimentality is wearing , and some of this is rather cringe-worthy , although leads Michael Moriarty and Robert De Niro are adequate . Vincent Gardenia is excellent as the team's surly coach - - a clichéd role , but one which inherits Gardenia's general wit as a character actor . Fine cinematography , a few strong moments , but the movie is talky and mopey , and ultimately more puzzling than moving . from
Middling adaptation of Roger Hedden's play about four twentysomethings in small Arizona town trying to find some truth in their lives . Acting showcase for Eric Stoltz , Bridget Fonda , Phoebe Cates and Tim Roth is surprisingly uneventful - - and mercilessly slow-moving . Performances by Fonda and Cates outclass the men , with Roth a real irritant as a feckless drifter ( of course , the character as written isn't exactly a charmer ) . Some of the dialogue is sharp and there are interesting bits and pieces . Stoltz also co-produced , and the small budgeted film has a very stylish , quasi-surreal look that bolsters the limp action . from
Wealthy businessman's daughter , who as a young girl caught rheumatic fever and now suffers from a shortness of breath , discovers her marriage to a charming ne'er-do-well was arranged by daddy ( whom she affectionately refers to as " Darling " ) ; worse than that , she may in fact have only a few weeks left to live , leaving her husband free to marry her conniving romantic-rival . Pure bunk . Paul Osborn's screenplay ( via Jerome Weidman's thin story ) trots out the redundant flashbacks in the second-half instead of proceeding ahead with the plot , which submerges the already-soapy scenario in grim talk . Why go backwards when we can figure out what's happening for ourselves ? This is a " woman's weeper " with no faith in its target audience , so simplistic is the set-up . Dorothy McGuire , swathed in furs for most of the picture , isn't a canny , clever heroine at all ; when she's upset , she turns inward and stony . Upon realizing her marriage is basically a sham , she shrinks away from her husband like the consummate virgin ( well , that's a possibility , she and Van Johnson sleep in separate beds after all ! ) . Ruth Roman has the film's best moments as a society shark with her trap set for Van , but what exactly do these women see in him ? Johnson can be charming when it's required , but put him in a melodramatic setting and he goes stony , too . MGM production values only so-so , however director Gottfried Reinhardt tries adding some visual flavor to the flashback segues and he attempts a lively pacing for the movie's initial half-hour . from
David Bowie , on stage at London's Hammersmith Odeon ( circa 1973 ) performing under the guise of his alter-ego , the androgynous space alien Ziggy Stardust . Bowie now claims Ziggy was not his bow to transvestism but rather his way of bucking the system ; that's all well and good , but seeing D . B . in space-drag may make you think otherwise . He looks frequently ridiculous in these dated get-ups , and director D . A . Pennebaker gives Bowie no mystery or ambience ( he shoots straight-on without frills , probably the obstacle of teeny-tiny budget ) . Why remaster something of the ' point the camera and shoot ' variety of filmmaking ? Well , it's the 30th Anniversary of the album " The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust " , so they exhumed this from the mothballs to capitalize on the hype . Yes , the music here is exciting and maybe even titillating , but it'll be even better on your CD player . from
B-flick , full of nastiness , trades in religious exposition for standard thriller clichés as fallen seminarian-turned-police detective becomes a pawn in a war of Heaven's angels . Christopher Walken has his usual sly time as Gabriel ( with both a trumpet AND a chip on his shoulder ) , Viggo Mortensen is an unmemorable Devil . Grimy production at least dispatches solemn-faced Eric Stoltz early on ( a plus right there ) , and some of the dialogue is well-written , but the direction is heavy-handed and the plot elements never quite come together . By the last half , it has become a formulaic thriller , a would-be slam-bang . There was potential here , but it goes unrealized . Makes " The Seventh Sign " look masterful by comparison .
Jack Black and Kyle Gass play fantasy versions of themselves in this comic showcase for their side-band Tenacious D , an art-rock outfit with satirical , barbed lyrics . An ex-runaway obsessed with heavy metal and a beachfront-living , pot-smoking slacker who pretends he's a rock god meet and form a band ( the birthmarks on both their butt-cheeks form the group's moniker ) . Opening with a funny prologue which apes a Twisted Sister video from the ' 80s , " The Pick of Destiny " is a fairly well-produced movie aimed at older kids ; it occasionally resembles nothing more than a middle-aged variation of " Wayne's World " , with jokey-stoner interludes and a climactic bout with Beelzebub himself , yet Black and Gass have an enormously comfortable rapport ( they also acted as producers , co-wrote the script and all the music ) . The target audience will obviously go for it , though inspiration is a bit low , particularly in the second-half ( just about the time our heroes impulsively outrun the cops in a student-driver car ) . The music sequences are far more successful than the attempts at movie satire and , for the first thirty minutes or so , Jack Black's manic enthusiasm is infectious . from
Warner Bros . empties out its star-stable for a witless talent round-up . Eddie Cantor is the main focus here , playing both himself and a look-alike tour-bus driver trying to break into show business . Bette Davis ' bit , singing the priceless " They're Either Too Young or Too Old " , is the highlight here , and Davis-addicts should be feasting off this cameo for years ( she's really quite delightful ) . The other guests ( Dennis Morgan , Dinah Shore , John Garfield , Humphrey Bogart , Errol Flynn , Olivia de Havilland , et al ) aren't at all memorable with the colorless scraps they're handed . Tailor-made for the 1940s , this looks pretty hoary today . from
A young gay man from the sticks comes to New York City in 1969 hoping for a better life , but finds the homosexual lifestyle just as stifled in the big city under police pressure , corruption and harassment . The legendary gay riots near the Stonewall Inn take up just five minutes of the film's running-time , the final five minutes . This low-budget , brightly-colored film is more interested in the lives that would soon be affected by the riots than in the aftermath of the violence - - and so we get stock characters like the naive blond cowboy , the underworld group controlling the club , the straight-seeming activists for a Homosexual Alliance , and lots and lots of drag queens . Director Nigel Finch seems to make a concerted effort to equate homosexuality with drag behavior , and drag behavior with ( ultimately ) prostitution . Perhaps this was true of the times , but Finch's presentation ( though not campy ) has cartoonish leanings and nostalgic overtures that don't express anything more than what most people already realize : the cops were corrupt , the gays were not saints , and they clashed . There's a good movie to be made about Stonewall , but this one just scratches the surface . There are some sweet moments ( a sing-along on a bus , a dance between a drag queen and a gay conservative ) , but just as many scenes where the tone intended hasn't a hope in hell of coming through . from
Mary Stuart Masterson attempts to give a subtle , thoughtful , nuanced performance as a pregnant , unwed teenager about to give up her soon-to-be-born baby to a married couple who have chosen adoption , but the cutesy-coy writing here defeats her - - and everyone else . Glenn Close and James Woods are credible as the prospective parents desperate to have a family , but neither is given much of a character to play , and Close in particular has some fearsome dialogue ( " She's going to have a boy ! How do I know ? I saw the penis ! " ) . Kevin Dillon is cringe-worthy as Masterson's thuggish , chain-smoking boyfriend , and the feel-good trimmings which dot the narrative are pure balderdash . Only for gullible viewers . from
Eyesore comic farce has detective Sherlock Holmes throwing his brother a bone and letting him solve baffling blackmail case in foggy London . Gene Wilder , who wrote , directed and stars , obviously needed some restraint ; when Wilder doesn't have a director or co-hort like Mel Brooks to help level his excesses , he can be too much to take . Wilder has enough vitality and ingenuity for three people , but he's undisciplined and doesn't know when to hold back . As a director , he allows his own scenes to go too far , and apparently didn't encourage the editor to trim the chafe . In this context , it is amazing that Marty Feldman and Madeline Kahn get much to do , yet they each have some funny scenes - - however , Feldman's eye-shtick is over-used and Kahn's showy scenes , such as her sequence in a music-hall , are botched by bad photography , timing , and staging . Wilder never seems to know where to put the camera , and " Smarter Brother " ends up looking sloppy . from
An adulterous couple meet at the same cabin every year for a weekend tryst ( we see them every five years ) , while the world's fashions , morals and mores change around them . Ellen Burstyn repeats her Broadway triumph on the screen , and garnered an Oscar nod for Best Actress ; though she's a terrific actress , this role doesn't allow Burstyn any real personality : it's all processed , from the costume and wig changes down to the mannerisms , from youthful girlishness to flip , knowing womanhood . Opposite her , Alan Alda is serviceable though rather uncomfortable , flailing away at little sitcom routines like a fish caught in a net . The sex talk between the two is queasy ( despite being played for big laughs ) , halting the movie in its tracks . There's a love ballad that plays prior to every new chapter , and black-and-white stills representing the passing years , and this is all fine until we get back to that damn cabin . Playwright / screenwriter Bernard Slade doesn't write for the ages , he's too impatient and wants to wring laughter out of every set-up . Therefore , the film is sniggering instead of intuitive , and artificially sentimental instead of human . from
Michael Crichton's writing skills are undeniably gripping , and as a movie director he has occasionally shown a deft sense of pacing ; unfortunately for science-fiction fans , Crichton has mainly chosen to waste his craft on piddling , throwaway material like " Runaway " , which is so overloaded with mechanical energy that even Crichton's obvious literary talent and underrated film-making skills go nearly unnoticed . Tom Selleck ( not bad , but looking unhappy and unsure ) plays a cop in the future who hunts down a madman who uses electronics to do his victims in . Some sly gadgetry and a hot supporting performance by Kirstie Alley ( working from next-to-nothing ) enlivens an otherwise stiff , silly action-thriller . from
Director Robert Altman practically resurrected his quirky film-making career with this in-jokey , acerbic overview of show business , and the many celebrities who dot the cast prove that Altman's prestigious name and reputation made much of Hollywood want to jump on-board . Still , this murder mystery , with studio hotshot Tim Robbins involved in the death of a would-be screenwriter , is wayward and smug , and the star-cameos are like speedbumps in the course of the story . Robbins is carefully handled and efficient , but disappointingly one-note ; Whoopi Goldberg is terribly out of place as an investigator on the case ( she looks like yet another star-sighting until you realize she's " in character " ) . Brightly-made , fairly lively picture is fine as a time-filler , but it isn't engrossing as a crime flick should be . Altman is more interested in having a good time than in trying to top himself . from
The Near-Sighted Mr . Magoo ( amiably voiced by Jim Backus ) gets his own starring vehicle in this not-bad animated comedy-fantasy from UPA . Lamp-seller in Budhapest demands that his loaf-off nephew Aladdin get married ; the boy becomes smitten with the Sultan's daughter , but she's in danger of being snatched by the Sultan's assistant , the Wicked Wazir , who worships a magical flame . With so much going on , the more familiar elements of this story ( the magic lamp , the genie , the flying carpet ) almost get lost in the stampede of quips , jokes , puns , satire , and slapstick . The animation is best in the montages , most often resembling the Fractured Fairy Tales for television . George Duning's perky , pretty music keeps the movie lively , but it could have stood a pacier touch . Too much time is spent on rambling set-pieces , though the attention to story detail is good and funny bit characters do emerge . from
Cynical detective investigates the murder of a prostitute , a case which has occult underpinnings . Murky , unpleasant picture with bloody deaths and odd nude shots of Karen Black ( perhaps it's Black's body-double , for you rarely see Karen's face connected to the shapely naked figure ) . Christopher Plummer does a great job as the investigator ; a handsome wise-ass , he's terrifically funny in his offhand manner and gives this a big boost . There's a bummer of a subplot involving a homosexual , and the damp Canadian locales are visually dull , but I did admire director Harvey Hart's structuring of the before-and-after storyline . Despite some great reviews from the critics , " The Pyx " just kind of tails off , and the credits hit the screen before you can stop scratching your head . from
Heavyweight champ James J . Braddock looks back on his humble beginnings : in the Depression Era as a washed-up boxer with a broken hand and a revoked license , he struggles to take care of his wife and three kids before making a miraculous comeback . Director Ron Howard builds every scene as something extraordinary , while his throwaway bits ( such as a married couple fighting in front of a church , or a man walking out on his wife ) are hammered home with little subtlety . Howard constructs the film disappointingly , with a flashback segue intervening about seven minutes in , and with principal actors who look pained , perplexed or disinterested . Renée Zellweger , playing Braddock's fiercely devoted wife Mae ( who sews under a single lamp while her kids always seem to be in bed ) , is stuck with lines like , " When you get hit , I feel it , too " . This is the passive , loving wifey movie fans have seen since the beginning of time , and Zellweger does absolutely nothing original with the part ; Russell Crowe has some strong scenes as Braddock , but our introduction to him , smugly collecting his money after a fight , is curiously sour . He and Zellweger have no screen chemistry whatsoever , and their dialects and acting styles clash . The smaller roles are filled with scenery-chewing overachievers , and Howard is shameless in allowing them to hold nothing back ( everything is done ' colorfully ' , for effect , and the film plays like a ham sandwich ) . This true story comes hilariously " pre-approved " with a quote from Damon Runyan , with period detail that is careful but disappointing . The whole enterprise suffers from boxing fatigue . from
Overstuffed Warner Bros . vehicle for Doris Day , here playing a nightclub singer who travels from England to New York to be reunited with her mom , a former Broadway star who has fallen on hard times ; meanwhile , an elderly B-way producer hires Day for his new show , causing rumors that he's her lover ! Since the many musical numbers consist of musty oldies ( even for 1951 ) and the plot is a drag , that only leaves the stars to carry this second-biller , and Day , Gladys Cooper , S . Z . Sakall and Billy de Wolfe are all fun . Gene Nelson is off-putting as Day's romantic lead ( he harbors a strangely creepy side which was probably unintentional ) , although his tap-dance with Doris up a steep flight of steps is breathtaking . An adequate time-filler , and Doris sparkles as usual . from
In the early 1900s , a city girl ( Susan Hayward ) marries a country parson ( William Lundigan ) from North Georgia's hill country , coming to live with him and be the proud preacher's wife , but there are obstacles to overcome . After a spunky start , this adaptation of Corra Harris ' book becomes mired in pointless , pious melodrama , coated heavily with religious uplift ( which may or may not be ingenuous ) . The film scores points for not making the minister a stodgy sort - - on the contrary , he's frisky and playful , like an overage kid , so much so that his new bride seems like a cold fish by comparison . Still , their early days together have a folksy flavor which is appealing , and a sermon the preacher gives about marriage is full of happy tears . But when a mysterious fever makes the rounds , a boy is drowned at a picnic , and the wife loses her baby and her faith in God , the film drains itself of good will . Hayward has a fun sequence scaring away a wealthy admirer of her husband , but otherwise this character doesn't allow the actress to be friendly or capricious at all ; she's a dullard . Lundigan , looking like a relative of Pat Boone's , has the more colorful role ( surprisingly ) and his sensitivity to the townspeople is well-captured . The Technicolor photography is disappointing , as is the direction and the script - - why do religious-themed movies always have to turn sanctimonious ? from
Before this afternoon special aired on television , much of the publicity made it seem like the mini-movie would be a highly-charged , no-holds-barred drug-drama in the vein of " Scared Straight ! " It's not . It's a too-tidy examination of troubled teens in rehab , getting counseling for their problems and learning from tragedy . The best sequence in the film , where the kids confront their parents , features some very forceful acting by Drew Barrymore ( at this point in her life experiencing much of these problems for real ) , but Tatum O'Neal is incredibly stiff and unsure as an ex-addict / counselor , David Birney colorless as the mediator , and Corey Feldman . . . well , acts like Corey Feldman ( he doesn't do his Michael Jackson impersonation but his long , jet-black hair is embarrassing ) . Minor offering was built up in the press to be something extra special , but it was almost immediately forgotten . Certainly it meant well , and maybe it helped somebody out there .
Director Robert Altman's cinema swan-song is a multi-character , country-and-western flavored look behind the scenes at a fictional radio-variety show during its very last broadcast . The screenplay ( by Garrison Keillor , who also co-stars as " G . K . " ) never bothers itself with a linear plot ; instead , Keillor and Altman wistfully string together a daisy-chain of character vignettes , reminiscences and songs for a slight , but occasionally sweet result . The underlying theme of death is both curious and sad ( particularly in view of Altman's unintended farewell ) and the players are colorful and game . Still , the picture doesn't have much drive , and in certain stretches it just evaporates . Too many of the musical performers are forced into repeating themselves ( perhaps Altman could've used a few more acts ) ; as kooky as they are , one tires of their overtly nutty talk , which is all on one-note and never finds an amusing rhythm . The actors themselves are likable , and Kevin Kline's clumsiness is a welcome relief ( he brings some unexpected physical comedy to the mix ) , but these gentle recollections are sweetly dazed without being truly enthralling . from
" Ash Wednesday " opens with a series of sepia-toned , fabricated photographs putting a young , glamorous Elizabeth Taylor together with a lean , dark-haired Henry Fonda ; it's a great credits-sequence , well pulled off , until we find out that all this fancy living has taken its toll on poor Liz , portraying a lawyer's wife from Detroit ( couldn't they aim higher than that ? ) . Figuring plastic surgery is the only way to win back her estranged husband's love , Taylor checks into a Swiss medical resort and receives a full-body lift , later trading in her gauze and bandages for Valentino wraps and elaborate fur ensembles for a vacation at the local chalet . There's nothing remotely engaging about this scenario , except to see La Liz in a series of delectable wardrobe changes . We know that when Fonda arrives and sees her , nothing will be different ( this is telegraphed far in advance ) . The picture was probably ahead of its time in depicting the vanity in men as well as in women , but Taylor and Fonda have a tough time creating actual characters ( the writing being hardly more than a sketch ) . Liz has a nice moment asking Fonda to sing with her as they walk home , also a strong scene arguing with her daughter ( Margaret Blye , who is well-cast ; her eyes are almost as beautiful as Taylor's ) . But this fairy-tale-that-isn't hasn't much to offer aside from its surface attributes , which are photographed in a maddening series of subdued colors . from
Well-received French film from James Oliver Curwood's book harks back to the wildlife documentaries from 1950s Disney in both style and sentiment , as an orphaned bear cub trails a Kodiak bear around a mountain terrain for companionship . Soon , they're both being followed by an eager pack of hunters . " The Bear " features several eloquent and lovely moments , captured beautifully on film by director Jean-Jacques Annaud , though unfortunately the film as a whole isn't especially worthwhile . The animals are manipulated into action for the sake of thrills , some of which have a brutal edge , leaving an uncomfortable pall hanging over the project . Ultimately , it's an old-fashioned adventure story with a sincere appreciation for the bears involved , yet it doesn't leave one feeling very satisfied . from
A mama's boy motel owner may be a killer . Jazzed-up remake of Alfred Hitchcock's signature thriller " Psycho " arrives with early strikes against it . Face it , the original " Psycho " was not the greatest movie ever made , it had a very thin plot and a tame final reel . This version ( by Gus Van Sant ? ! ) accentuates the original's weaknesses without adding anything positive . The performances are variable , ranging from excellent ( Anne Heche ) to uncomfortable ( William H . Macy , in a hat ! ) to overwrought ( Julianne Moore ) . The shocks aren't there , but I can't imagine the original would be too shocking for today's audiences either . On its own terms , a fairly decent film with some admirable qualities such as good cinematography and set-design . But if you're gonna go with this story , you can't pass up the original . from
Animated take on " Oliver Twist " from the Disney Studios , marked by an impressive list of star-voices in the cast but hurt overall by fairly colorless songs and unmemorable characters . These adventures of an orphaned kitten and a streetwise dog are not particularly witty - - and the cuteness quickly becomes wearing - - but very young children should enjoy it ( older kids and adults may start squirming after thirty minutes or so ) . Relies heavily on the panache of the celebrity performers ( including Bette Midler , Billy Joel , Robert Loggia , Richard Mulligan and Cheech Marin ) to give the scenario some energy , but the vocal hamming is occasionally irritating . The musical numbers , while nothing marvelous , are at least upbeat , and the finale is good , but this is a long way from even " The Rescuers " . from
Assistant District Attorney in San Francisco investigates when a shady art dealer is murdered . Director William Friedkin is on auto-pilot with this silly retread of " Basic Instinct " , however the dynamics of the plot tend to draw you in against your better judgment . The car stunts are fabulous , most of the actors are sultry eye-candy , elfin-faced David Caruso is admirably commanding , but the plot doesn't bear close scrutiny . Friedkin's porny scenes ( which played havoc with the film's rating ) walk that cinematic line between being necessary and just being exploitive ( see " Lipstick " . . . and just about every movie written by this film's screenwriter , Joe Eszterhaus ) . " Jade " isn't despicable , but it leaves the viewer in the uncomfortable position of shameful voyeur , and while this may be titillating to some , it doesn't sit well in retrospect . from
Paddy Chayefsky's monologue-heavy lambasting of the Sex Symbol mythology , with Kim Stanley as a troubled young woman from Maryland who comes to Los Angeles in the 1940s to work as an actress and becomes a star . Queasy , peculiar melodrama seems to blame show-business for the girl's plight , but we can clearly see from the beginning she's an extremely insecure person , able to attract people but not capable of keeping them . Stanley does everything she can with this role , but she looks much more mature than the men she's paired up with , and Chayefsky does her a disservice by having everyone talk about what a talent she is but never letting us see for ourselves . It's a busy , chatty movie that tries on different themes and then drops them ( just as it does most of the male characters ) . Patty Duke ( pre - " The Miracle Worker " ) has a nice bit near the beginning ( playing Stanley as a grade-schooler ) , the black-and-white cinematography is quite good and there are flashes of interest throughout . from
Porn actor John Holmes ( Val Kilmer , in a brave performance ) , down on his luck in Los Angeles 1981 , sets up his own drug-connection , powerful club owner Eddie Nash , for a raid on his drugs , gems and guns by his Hollywood ' friends ' , a violent group of crack-heads living on the edge , leading to a bloody massacre in their apartment . Director / co-writer James Cox obviously has the capabilities of being a virtuoso filmmaker , but this material ( so steeped in police business , character confessions , and flashbacks ) never really allows Cox to get creative . The jumpy , jazzy editing and hyped-up druggies on display are only intermittently arresting , and the acting work by the large cast is curiously uneven . Cox displays a sharp sense of time and place , and he pieces together this complex murder-case with a keen , forceful style , but despite the homicide scene being one of the most gruesome in Los Angeles history , none of the participants as shown ( including Holmes ) are very interesting . from
Overrated adaptation of Sir Walter Scott's book hasn't held up well , and is now best remembered for Elizabeth Taylor's appearance as Rebecca , looking gorgeous in her period costumes yet giving another of her whispery , listless ' grown up ' performances . Story of 12th century England and the knights in battle was ripe material for old-fashioned , high-end movie adventure , but Robert Taylor plays the title-named soldier as something of a martyr . Thankfully , lively Joan Fontaine ( as one of the two women in Ivanhoe's heart ) adds a bit of sparkle to the proceedings , which are stuffy instead of fun . Heavy scripting and direction ultimately sinks it , although the location shooting in England is very handsome . from
Josh Charles is wonderful as a young man obsessed with . . . traffic ? He longs to be a traffic reporter in the sky , but first finds on-again / off-again love with a perplexing Anne Heche ( she's so flaky he can't get a grip on her , and neither can we ) . John Goodman has a funny supporting role , and the production values are first-rate , but this is short-film material stretched out far too long . Terrific cast includes Dey Young , Christine Lahti , and Brent Spiner , but each has very little to do , and the film is flattened out by an overall lack of imagination and by its length . More cleverness was obviously needed ; there's not enough substance here for the picture to stay the course . from
1933 comedy isn't too creaky , despite its age . Droll adaptation ( the first of two ) of Rachel Crothers ' play about a female writer who has penned a fictional account of an affair she had with a married man , later unknowingly befriending the jilted wife at a dinner party . Some very tart lines and smart performances by Ann Harding , Myrna Loy and Frank Morgan , but the direction ( reportedly troubled ) is somewhat sluggish . Robert Montgomery is an acting casualty , and the 85-minute film takes a good 45 minutes to warm up . Later remade in 1941 with Joan Crawford , and perhaps was the starting point for Allan Burns and Mary Tyler Moore's " Just Between Friends " . from
A deluded Southern belle goes to stay with her pregnant sister and her swaggering brute of a brother-in-law in their tacky New Orleans flat , but his pent-up passion and the belle's fluttery innocence / insanity clash in dramatic and sexual ways . Vivien Leigh is exceptional as quixotic , somewhat irritating Blanche DuBois , and this highly-theatrical material only comes to life cinematically when she is on the screen . Talk-heavy Tennessee Williams play seems a bit smoothed over , with the breathy lines of unreal dialogue occasionally landing with a literate clatter . Personal taste will have to decide whether the writer's penchant for melodramatic speeches and irrational behaviors are touching , theatrically-charged , or just perverse ( sometimes they are all three ) . It's a beautifully filmed piece , and with Oscar-winner Leigh as Blanche it is nearly a success . However , Marlon Brando ( as tortured Stanley Kowolski ) works and works at carving out his character with such angst that he may leave some viewers cold . Arduous , occasionally intriguing and involving but also extremely heavy-going . Remade twice for television , in 1984 and 1995 . from
A loosely-hinged story about madness . A benumbed young woman , staying alone in her sister's apartment , is suffering from neuroses which may have to do with her being sexually repressed ; when intruders attempt to get into the flat , the girl unintentionally becomes a murderess . Director Roman Polanski's first English-language film has very little dialogue in it ( and what wordy sequences there are don't quite register , for Polanski had not yet developed a feel for the language ) . Although the filmmaker's narrative is carefully-mounted , it quickly stagnates via Polanski's incredibly slow pacing ; yet , on a purely visual level , some effective , eerie scenes are created . Still , this plot as such isn't very involving , despite a foreboding undercurrent that works on the viewer steadily ( the movie is actually more disturbing after it's over , when you've had time to assess it as a whole ) . Catherine Deneuve has the complicated leading role , and she's tremulous and lovely if not particularly magnetic . from
After attempting to defend the honor of a prostitute in a bar , working-stiff Elvis Presley beats up her pimp , killing him with his bare hands ! He serves time in the jug , where his guitar-pickin ' cellmate teaches the hot-headed punk a few chords . Rags-to-riches tale constantly tidies up its own sordid scenario , replacing it with glossy camp , though for the first hour it's rather intriguing ( with the musical star doing quite well as a beastly kid with no manners ) . After the ex-jailbird goes to Hollywood to become an actor ( at Climax Studios ! ) , any credibility the picture once had manages to go straight down the drain . Not only does the script leech off Presley's own million-to-one success story , the plot ( suddenly narrated by Presley's lawyer ! ) becomes an intolerable , smelly mixture of sentiment and soap suds . The title tune aside , the music is mediocre , and the clichés start coming so fast it's tough to wade through them . from
Scattershot satire of spy flicks , screwball comedies and old-fashioned musicals has British rock group the Beatles on the run from villainous types who hope to steal one of the rings owned by drummer Ringo ( ha ha ) . Fine musical sequences bolster weak slapstick outing which has great visual style but no real plot . While the Beatles were insidiously changing the face of rock and roll at this time , their films embraced a much more old-fashioned movie-structure ; " Help ! " could be an update of any number of ' 50's Hollywood teen flicks , and yet it started a trend of its own ( followed in quick succession by Herman's Hermits and the TV series " The Monkees " ) . Certainly worth-watching , and the personalities of John , Paul , George and Ringo - - sneakily disparate once you get passed the filmmakers ' glossy perception of them - - provides some curious amusement . from
A Disney pacifier for children . Perky mermaid Ariel longs for life outside the ocean , acquires legs and ventures forth on land to meet a boy . The swirling colors and Broadway-styled musical numbers are pleasant and upbeat for the first half of the picture , yet even they take on a chintzy / glitzy ambiance that nullifies the old-fashioned tale , bowling the audience over yet numbing them at the same time . It is not " the greatest thing ever put out by Disney " , although the film's creators would like you to think so . As cloying as the Disney output could be while Walt was alive and overseeing product , the worse everything got once he passed away . " The Little Mermaid " is hectic and mildewy , with a ready-made villainess and non-dialogue spouted by the vocal actors as if they were truly underwater . from
Disney / Pixar's sequel to " Toy Story " from 1995 introduces some fun new characters and has colorful celebrity voice-overs and energy to spare , but the plot this time ( taking some of the toys out of the bedroom and into the big cruel world ) doesn't sustain much interest - - especially if you're over 12 . Woody gets snatched at a yard sale by a toy collector and learns he's a high-priced rarity in the antique market ; Buzz , Slinky Dog , Rex and Mr . Potato Head come to the rescue . Best moment is the funny sci-fi opening ( which manages to be satirical and exciting ) , and Woody's introduction to his character's background is wonderfully presented . The big rescue , while lively for younger viewers , is lengthy and full of manic action ; there's so much bombast ( and hollering from the stars ) that the intricate details and warm nostalgia which earmarked the first " Toy Story " slowly slips away . from
Good-looking but lumpish and derivative Disney animated musical based on Chinese folklore . Young girl , a failure in Concubine School , decides to join the Chinese Emperor's Army disguised as a boy to save her family's name . Lots of " drag " jokes and vocal hamming from Eddie Murphy ( as a tiny dragon ) may make kids giggle , but this is far from the studio's best work . The bathing sequence is a hoot , there are moments of beauty and wonder , but the songs aren't memorable and the film runs too long . out of .
Robert Redford is miscast as a British adventurer in Africa wooing married Danish writer Meryl Streep . Busy , overlong romantic opus / travelogue based upon the life of Karen Blixen is really just an excuse to get these two beautiful stars together on-screen , and certainly their combined chemistry makes several scenes quite memorable . Streep flourishes in this extravagant role , and Klaus Maria Brandauer is excellent as her rather hapless husband , but director Sydney Pollack allows his pacing to plod , and wooden Redford never livens up . It apparently impressed the Academy , winning Oscars for Pollack , Karl Luedtke for his screenplay adaptation , David Watkin for his admittedly lovely cinematography , Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Sound , John Barry for his score , and for Best Picture . from
Bruce Willis looks appropriately grim throughout thriller about a child psychologist who attempts to help a troubled young boy who claims to see ghosts . Surprisingly popular other-worldly yarn ( surprising because the film is so old-fashioned ) , it goes to sometimes hokey means to get a scare out of the audience , but is nevertheless very well-made and engrossing . Written and directed by M . Night Shyamalan , the picture is low-keyed , somewhat ambitious , but not very delicate , with plot-holes and moments where there seems to be no driving force behind the narrative ; for such a deliberately-paced movie , Shyamalan doesn't show much grace , only technical finesse . " The Sixth Sense " is like a good " Night Gallery " episode : occasionally suspenseful , with solid , non-showy performances , but with the general feeling that we've been down this road before . from
Franco Zeffirelli's energetic handling of William Shakespeare's raucous battle of the sexes involving blustery Petruchio , a 16th Century fortune-hunter from Verona , Italy , who is slated to woo Katharina , the wicked wench of Padua , whose hand is surely available ; with her dowry looming large , Petruchio manages to get Katharina to the altar , where their stormy tussle of exchanges continues onto the honeymoon . Directed with visual flair and a great deal of energy , yet star-couple Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton ( ideally suited to the material though they are ) do uneven work . Burton seems to believe cackling his way through his role will suffice , while Taylor's mincing little post - " Taming " smiles aren't completely convincing ( her best scene is her initial one , leaning out the window ) . Whole sequences ( such as the wedding ceremony and the final gamble ) fail to really take off ; this is mainly due to the slapdash timing and a general lack of focus - - Zeffirelli is wonderful with the small details but grand-scale storytelling seems to hinder him . A modest success at the box-office , the film set the stage for Zeffirelli's follow-up , 1968's " Romeo and Juliet " , which finally made the Bard ' 60s accessible . from
Bearing little resemblance to the book , or in fact to real life , " Midnight Express " exists in a sadomasochist bubble , completely removed from anything concrete . Even on its own terms , it makes no sense . With heavy homosexual overtones throughout , our hero ( played by Brad Davis ) turns down gay sex as if he's above it , yet director Alan Parker revels in the sexual imagery ( what with Davis standing spread out in front of the law or being pawed at by sexual brute Paul Smith ) . Are we to believe that this American tourist in Turkey , jailed for attempting to smuggle out hashish , is some kind Arc Angel , remaining pure throughout the carnage ? Oliver Stone adapted the non-fiction book , and won an Oscar , but he waters down an already taut account ( or maybe it was watered down for him ) . This is not to say the film doesn't have horrifying or fascinating passages ( it does command attention ) , but the " plot " , as such , doesn't hang together . The movie has a dated look , and dated music , causing it to resemble an old porny picture , and the performances are variable . from
Super-8 auteur Jonathan Caouette , a young gay man with an extremely turbulent life , reveals his troubled childhood through home-movies and stills . The worshipful son of a beautiful ex-child model / single mother / electro-shock recipient , Caouette manages , in surprisingly linear fashion considering the circumstances , to paint a vivid portrait of the ultimate dysfunctional family . His grandparents , who ended up adopting Jonathan after his mother was jailed and he went through the horrors of the foster care system , are revealed as loving yet unconcerned older folks with perhaps a secretive , defensive side ; Jonathan's mother Renee , once a striking young woman , is the sad result of " medical expertise " gone shatteringly wrong . The film is alternately assaultive , theatrical ( Jonathan revealed a highly acute sense of theatricality and love for outré movies at a very young age ) , amusing , narcissistic , boring , compelling and , finally , quite moving . There are just as many stretches of questionable sincerity on Caouette's part as there are exhilarating moments - - a joyous romp on the beach with mom or a beautiful , revealing childhood lip-synching take on " Frank Mills " . The alt-rock soundtrack is superb and Caouette , a handsome , playfully schizophrenic star-in-the-making , is a talent to watch . from
Rudyard Kipling's classic story of an infant boy in India stolen from his mother and later raised by wolves in the jungle is given colorfully cinematic treatment from the Korda Brothers , who skimp quite a bit on Baloo the Bear but give us lots of other fanciful things : talking snakes , a cursed fortune of gold , a forest fire , and villainous human characters more deadly than just about any of the animals . Sabu has the lead , and though Mowgli grows up in one quick cut from the film-editor ( and learns the English language nearly as quickly ! ) , Sabu provides a sturdy , confident center for the picture and nearly holds the narrative together . The cinematography is occasionally beautiful , though the choppiness of the continuity ( and the repetitive shots of tiger Shere Khan ) keeps the movie from really blooming . Too much of the mid-section follows three would-be thieves in and out of the jungle , and I felt bad for the monkeys in the Lost City ( we never see them escape the fire , and indeed hear their howls over a shot of the ruins ) . Still , " Jungle Book " is visually impressive and mostly entertaining if you're not too demanding . from
Nicolas Roeg drama , patchily intense without being really absorbing , has married couple Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie grieving the death of their daughter ; when a strange psychic tells them the deceased child is trying to contact them from beyond , Sutherland becomes obsessed with finding the truth . After a fascinating opening , this psychological thriller gets more and more murky , leading to a wet climax in Venice , Italy that leaves the viewer feeling high and dry . Roeg enjoys frenzied story loops , curious cuts and editing techniques , but he doesn't have a trace of humor - - good , dark or otherwise - - and the heaviness of the film is more memorable than the story ( which is anti-climactic ) or the performances . from
It takes a huge leap of faith to buy the pesky little plot device rattling around in " Being There " . Peter Sellers plays a grown man with the intelligence of a six or seven-year-old . He has worked all his life for a recluse who apparently took him in , but now he finds himself on his own and is soon befriended by an ultra-rich and powerful political couple . " Chauncey " has never ridden in a car , been to the doctor or the dentist . Everything he knows comes from television . . . and TV keeps butting into the framework of this fragile premise . Director Hal Ashby doesn't want us to miss anything , and every ironic point is underlined twice ( such as with clips of inane TV commercials and , in one irritating case , an animated video that looks like the Harlem Globetrotters ) . " Chauncey " is accepted much too easily into the home of Melvyn Douglas and his beaming , slightly brainless wife . All the " normal " adults in the film have to , at some point , become idiots in order for this premise to work . It's dumbed down in order to get to the payoff ( the whole movie is a build-up to that payoff ) and when it came , I was surprised but not exhilarated . " Being There " is a one-trick pony . from
In ancient Rome , a sloppy , lazy slave must unite his young master with a virginal courtesan just imported from Greece , but she has already been bought by a virile Captain . Richard Lester's New York / Jewish burlesque revue , a ' throw everything at the screen and see if it sticks ' slapstick comedy based on the hit Broadway show . With Nicolas Roeg as his cinematographer , Lester ( aided by the wizardry of his editors ) stages one breathless , breakneck scene after another , not attempting to top himself with each one but rather trying for any laugh he can buy . The cast of old pros mug to the camera shamelessly , slinging those wisecracks home with gusto , but the film isn't a gut-buster . It works intermittently and has some nice musical sketches ( and the Madrid locations were a fine visual choice ) , but the jokes don't connect with the audience in a human way . It's just a series of boffo vaudeville routines , some of which get hammered home and others that are handled gingerly , making a lilting comedic impression . from
Thinly-disguised movie biography of trumpet-player Bix Beiderbecke , with the standard rags-to-riches and romance clichés intact . Kirk Douglas is well-cast in the starring role , falling for society shark Lauren Bacall , who quickly drains him of his focus and inspiration until he realizes a need to return to his roots . Band-singer Doris Day is there for him , but she's made to be so wholesome she's akin to Douglas ' kid sister . The details don't add up , but the picture does look good and it isn't cloying . Day gets to sing in her bright , clear voice , and the music is pretty fantastic , yet the film is compromised by the Hollywood gloss , tidying up the sordid details in Beiderbecke's story to make it more palatable for skittish audiences circa 1950 . from
Ben Hecht adapted William L . Stuart's book about a troubled New York police detective - - recently called on the carpet by his superior for roughing up too many suspects - - interrogating a shady character in the man's apartment , getting into a physical altercation and accidentally killing him . In the lead , drip-dry Dana Andrews doesn't look like the hair-trigger-temper sort , but he acquits himself well with this fascinating role , determined to cover up his mistake though inadvertently leaving the door open for an innocent taxi driver to be accused of murder ! Karl Malden is also extremely good as the new police lieutenant on the beat , and his rush to judgment against the working stiff is unsettling ( it gives one the feeling that many cases are still " solved " in this way ) ; Gene Tierney , Andrews ' " Laura " co-star , is perfect as the new suspect's daughter , whom Andrews is quickly falling for , but the finale is joyless and square . I guess the morals of the time dictated the picture HAD to end on this note , but seen today it plays like Hollywood preening . from
In New York , a man's dress coat , supposedly cursed by a disgruntled tailor , changes the lives of those who come in contact with it . They are : Charles Boyer as a suave actor wooing married Rita Hayworth , Henry Fonda as a nerd who stops Ginger Rogers from marrying skirt-chaser Cesar Romero , Charles Laughton as an aspiring musician , Edward G . Robinson as an unemployed alcoholic about to attend his class reunion , and Paul Robeson and Ethel Waters as poor black farmers ( another story starring W . C . Fields was trimmed in 1942 but later became a video edition bonus - - it adds nothing ) . Short stories told mostly in expert fashion , though some are obviously better than others . Fonda and Rogers are such an odd twosome that the second episode is probably the weakest ; the exceptional performances by Laughton and Robinson make those installments the strongest . However , the striking finale , complete with heavenly light and hallelujah chorus , looks so different from the rest ( and is filmed like a mini-epic ) that it appears to be a reel from another movie altogether . Overall , quite an entertaining piece for the actors , particularly Robinson - - who has never before been so vulnerable on-screen , the ultimate underdog . from
An American fashion-buyer is sent to Paris on assignment and immediately gets on the wrong side of a major French designer . Soon though , she almost inadvertently manages to charm him , as well as two other men . What is Ann-Margret doing to drive all these eligible bachelors crazy ? As far as we in the audience can see : nothing . Yes , she gets to dance a little and sing a pretty ditty on the docks , but the character is haphazardly written . One minute she's a firebrand , the next she's icy , almost frigid . Judging from her teasing and emotional schizophrenia , it's unlikely that suave Louis Jourdan would even give her the time of day .
Despite lots of pep from Bette Midler , " Beaches " is a wan variation on those female-buddy pictures from the 1940s ( " Dark Victory " in particular ) . It strives to create a tearjerking scenario , yet the earnest last act is hard to take seriously since the film hasn't an honest bone in its body . The infrequent songs ( including the hit " The Wind Beneath My Wings " ) are an unbroken string of oldies ( one song is lifted from 1941's " Dumbo " ! ) . I didn't for one second believe Midler and puffy-lipped Barbara Hershey were old friends / rivals , and the whole musty enterprise is a little cockeyed ( check out Midler's musical number " The Factory " with all those grotesque masks ! ) . The camera-work is continually uncertain , the verbal fights are awkward or creaky , the static relationships half-realized at best . It isn't even a good-looking movie , and it jumps around in fits and starts . " Beaches " is dry-docked . from
Sedate and as fleeting as a paperback novel ( despite its penchant for high-toned literacy ) , Woody Allen's " Another Woman " is a seemingly deeply-felt sonata about a 50-ish female writer in New York City who comes to the realization her current state of upscaled well-being is a sham . Allen excels in sequences of chatty couples interacting , with the dynamics of two sparking something unintended ; he also loves delving into the romantic complications between teacher and student , usually with infidelity a key ingredient , and all of those aspects work their way into this story , which has a moral , grounded center despite the cheating adults ( even a younger teen gets a guilty moment , having sex in a forbidden place , but of course she feels cheap afterward ! ) . Allen loves a contradiction as well as any writer , but his main character ( played stunningly by Gena Rowlands , who also narrates ) is living in the subconscious , and is forced into continually being enlightened . This is handled quite well ( with dreamy interludes and flashbacks to childhood ) , but this narrative actually should be more compelling ; instead , it's gossamer drama , with Bergman or Chekov overtures . A last-act fling between Rowlands ' husband and a friend is disappointing , with Woody falling back on the cliché ( couldn't Rowlands leave her sexless marriage on the basis of boredom alone ? ) . As a director , Woody is very careful and strict with his actors , and Gene Hackman as a novelist surprises the most ( his harsh attempt at seducing Rowlands is straightforward and yet almost neurotic - - and you can see the anguish and passion on his face ) ; Martha Plimpton continues to be far too eager , but Rowlands , Ian Holm , Betty Buckley , Frances Conroy , and Sandy Dennis have some incredible moments . As the " other woman " , whose life parallels Gena's , Mia Farrow has very little on-screen time but her plaintive voice and sensitive face are just right for this brief role . A fine drama about choices and regrets ; I'm not sure just how deeply a man like Woody Allen can empathize with a lady in her 50's trying to stay afloat in a loveless life , but there are several scenes here that really dig below the placid surface . from
Thin , but enjoyable romp involving a young , unmarried Jewish woman and her married family and friends - - all of whom seem to be miserable and cheating on each other . Ersatz Woody Allen , as it aspires to be , but not quite on the level of , say , " Hannah and Her Sisters " . Odd to see Mia Farrow here ( playing Sarah Jessica Parker's mother ) , as this is basically a retread of the work she was doing with Allen earlier in the decade . Parker is infectious , rattling off the sometimes-precious lines with professional aplomb , supporting cast is quite colorful , yet this tale doesn't have much of a point , and as a film it has no motivation beyond aping Allen . from
Jodie Foster sears the screen as a gang-rape victim , but no director has yet figured out how to film a rape sequence without it coming across as sensational or titillating to some pervy audiences . This assault in a bar , complimented with flashing pinball machine lights and a hunky attacker's thrusting rear-end , is prettied up for no apparent reason , and the other attackers and various on-lookers don't ring true . Kelly McGillis , playing the prosecutor who brings the rape's ringleaders to trial , is another problem : harried , breathy and fake-dramatic , McGillis doesn't so much create a character as she does reinforce a legal stereotype . Foster holds this one together with her Oscar-winning performance and , although I didn't find her a particularly convincing drunk , she pulls off the trampy side of her character admirably well and really gets into the rage of Sarah Tobias . The direction is wobbly and keeps focusing on things that don't matter ( like McGillis ' strained relationship with her co-workers , who seem to do little but walk up and down the office aisles ) . The movie wants to pack a powerful punch ( and ends with rape statistics that are sobering if unnecessary ) . However , if one viewer out there secretly finds the rape sequence ' hot ' instead of disturbing , this picture fails to do its job . from
Zombies are guarding a sunken ship full of treasures in a lagoon on the outskirts of a sleepy , nearly-deserted Southern town . Cardboard screamer shenanigans ; sure , some of it is fun , and the sequence where the zombies walk out of the water is skillfully done , but Allison Hayes ( as the sexy bad girl ) still can't act ! It's reassuring to see her cast as yet another femme fatale , but her line readings are robotic - - she's zombie-fied . The underwater sequences are a joke , yet the picture provides a definite nostalgia for the days when monster movies were bereft of commercial pandering and noisy , humongous special effects . It's not in the same league as , say , " Creature From the Black Lagoon " , but it does have some atmosphere . Whether it was intentional or not , some minor art comes through , along with a whole lotta bad acting . from
Natalie Wood in an unsung tour-de-force , playing relatively ordinary housewife and mother who has a mental collapse . Adaptation of Joyce Burditt's popular book , this TV-movie attempts to deal with touchy subject matter in a straightforward , mature , non-exploitive manner , and for the most part is quite successful . While in recovery mode , Wood is unblinking and unblushing , whether relaying her character's personal feelings or describing childhood haunts . The narrative is a bit clogged with medical minutiae ( I would've preferred to see more of Wood at home with her family ) , however the results are relatively well-wrought and quite memorable , and Natalie's work is blessedly unaffected and heartfelt .
Robert Carradine is a hack L . A . musician who lives near an abandoned Air Force Base , Cherie Currie is his semi-psychic girlfriend who hears a strange , high-pitched sound coming from within . That's the set-up for a slow yet engrossing science-fiction story which is by turns credible and yet too mechanical . The middle portion of the film sags with the weight of far too much technical jargon and yammering from government yahoos . Once things get back to Carradine and Currie , the movie recovers for an emotional conclusion . This is the best role Currie's had since 1980's " Foxes " and Carradine is an easy , giving actor who never mugs or hams . Keenan Wynn is also good in support , and the desert locales for the ending are well-captured . A minor offering from New World Pictures , though a highly competent one . from
After playing a smartly-dressed working mom on television for years , Diahann Carroll finally gets back to her dramatic roots and triumphs here as " Claudine " , a single welfare mother in a houseful of unruly kids who begins seeing a well-meaning garbage collector ( nicely played by a low-keyed James Earl Jones ) . Dated product of the 1970's has all the expected stereotypes , but director John Berry has fun with the convincing urban milieu and gets mileage out of Claudine's monetary predicaments , played for sarcastic laughs . The script brings up some all-too-realistic problems which it hasn't a hope in hell of solving , but the sharp , knowing , wiseass dialogue lends a bracing quality to these characters - - one respects them almost immediately . It's a fairy tale , a black variation on " Cinderella " , yet the film is a bit overreaching , hoping to be both a lightweight romp and a diatribe on how we're all victims of the Man . Despite the hardships we presume are to come , the overall absence of malice - - coupled with a cast full of brash , wonderful kooks - - is ingratiating . from
Ryan O'Neal gives one of his better , looser performances in this crime-caper , a handsome comedy-drama involving a high society thief planning a major heist . Warren Oates is the investigator in dogged pursuit , Jacqueline Bisset ( at her most lovely ) plays a love-interest in on the action , Austin Pendleton is very funny as a nerdy chess pro , and wonderfully blithe Jill Clayburgh makes a big impression in the minor role of O'Neal's ex-wife . Engaging fluff with tongue wryly in cheek , well-directed by Bud Yorkin . Terrific non-think entertainment for cable-watchers , yet this did seem a little flat when it played in theaters . from
Ernst Lubitsch comedy , adapted from the play " Parfumerie " by Nikolaus Laszlo , involves two sour gift-shop workers ( in Budapest , Hungary ! ) who are unknowingly each other's secret romantic pen-pal . Despite the odd locale , a blithe , easy romantic comedy , well-tailored for stars James Stewart and Margaret Sullavan . Director Lubitsch never strains for big laughs ; true , he doesn't get them , but instead he strives for a more gentle type of comedy with humor deriving from character development and situation - - not jokes . Quite appealing ; remade in 1949 as " In The Good Old Summertime " , staged as the musical " She Loves Me " , and remade yet again in 1998 as " You've Got Mail " . from
Every now and then , " Stepping Out " touches down on some heartfelt emotions that most viewers will relate to ; whether it's Liza Minnelli's jerk of a boyfriend , her loyalty to her tap dance students or the anxieties within the group , the script is surprisingly evocative once it gets down to the heart of the matter ( after cutting through the crap ) . There's a lot of dross filtering through here , too many stumble-bums and pratfalls that I assume are there to get laughs , but Liza is solid ( as usual ) and does a good job at keeping the picture on some form of realistic ground . The dancers are colorful and interesting , but Shelley Winters as the pianist on social security has a tough time portraying a ridiculous warhorse in silly hats . from
San Quentin inmate Jack Palance hatches quite a scheme to get out of jail - - get his lookalike brother to trade places with him in prison for a day while he constructs a foxhole to hide in , leading to his and his brother's escape . Filmed on-location in Cinemascope at San Quentin prison , with officers and inmates used as extras . It's a ludicrous plot , but the director keeps everything very low-keyed , and Jack Palance is excellent in demanding dual role . Extraordinarily silly , but so well-made you may be absorbed and interested despite yourself . Harold Stone is steely-eyed and cunning as a prison guard and Edward Platt ( later of TV's " Get Smart " ) is believably sympathetic as the nicest prison warden you'll ever see . Barbara Lang also good as the convict's wife , obviously cast for her platinum hair and curvy figure , but giving a grounded , natural performance without showy airs .
Ft . Lauderdale frolic has Elvis Presley cast as a Chicago rock-'n-roller who , along with his outfit-matching band members , takes on assignment to secretly chaperone the boss ' daughter as she vacations with her girlfriends down in Florida . Plush M-G-M musical with a dandy production design , lots of fun slapstick and girl-watching . The plot , such as it is , doesn't make a whole lot of sense ( especially with Elvis having his cover blown by Shelley Fabares ' tyrannical father , who then gets mad at Presley when his daughter decides to go crazy ) . The songs range from very good ( " Puppet on a String " , " The Meanest Girl In Town " ) to awful ( " I've Got to Find My Baby " , " Wolf Call " ) , but there's a groovin ' beach bash with excitable dancing and a funny prison breakout sequence in which EP gets stuck in a cell with twenty females ( and escapes in drag ! ) . Mary Ann Mobley has an insulting role ( and her make-up is too dark , causing her to look overcooked by the sun ) , but Fabares is breezy and there's a nice supporting turn by Nita Talbot as a streetwise stripper . Overall , not a bad Presley-fest , though the screenplay could've used some sharpening , and the extras are often hilariously wooden . from
Adaptation of Jim Piersall's memoir about growing up with an insensitive father , a tirelessly ambitious man with baseball dreams for his talented son - - and impossible to please even after his kid is recruited as shortstop for the Boston Red Sox . Piersall's eventual nervous breakdown is mounted in careful yet somehow manufactured terms ( when the pressured kid decides to go ice-skating instead of returning home , one can almost comically sense the clouds of doom forming for the next scene ) , and the " meet cute " with his future wife ( possibly the most patient woman alive ) is also by-the-numbers . Anthony Perkins does very well as Piersall , although the ludicrousness of Jimmy's behavior - - defending his father while resting at " State Hospital " - - isn't presented with any irony , and Perkins is too keyed-up to make a success of his showier scenes . As the pushy father , Karl Malden is also good but has a different problem : the character , completely stubborn and unsympathetic , doesn't seem to learn anything , even by the finale ( this is partly the director's fault , who hastens to show the father's progress ) . This tasteful treatment plays very much like a padded " Playhouse 90 " TV melodrama ( one with baseball park stock-shots ) , and Jimmy's psychoanalysis is laid out in such generic terms that he may as well have been suffering from migraines . Still , some good dramatic moments ultimately make the picture a worthwhile one , even though it's too workman-like and without any quirky or personal touches . from
Remake of Hitchcock's " Dial M For Murder " ( with a worse title ) has the unfaithful wife of a New York City businessman targeted for murder . Unsurprising twists in this updated version do allow Michael Douglas to play a mean SOB again ( after too many years of playing the victimized good guy ) , but the plot feels half-baked . Much of the movie seems to take place off-screen ; mostly what we get are fatuous red herrings and character contrivances . What's with all that linguistic talent Gwyneth Paltrow possesses ? What's the point ? . . . and when Gwyneth travels to the seedy side of town to try her key in a stranger's apartment , why does the editor cut away after she dramatically enters the building ? What does she find inside ? Why does she tell Douglas her intentions at the end , only to freeze against the door-jam when he tries to stop her ? " A Perfect Murder " isn't a dumb thriller , it's fairly tight and intriguing , and the performances are commendable , but it doesn't satisfy on a hearty level ( like Hitchcock ) . In fact , it ends with a whimper . from
Scrappy Italian comedy is made up of bits and pieces , never quite coming together . Goldie Hawn ( vivacious as ever ) is an American actress vacationing in Rome who gets mixed up with her friend's married lover ( a smoldering Giancarlo Giannini ) . They have little screwball mishaps and misunderstandings before making hot love in a hammock ( although on US video prints of the movie , there's an intrusive cut-away just as this scene heats up - - perhaps there is an Italian version Americans aren't ' mature ' enough to see ? ) . Hawn is in scatterbrain-mode , and I got a little tired of her whining about her cat , but she has fine moments too and works well with Giancarlo . There's a funny scene near the beginning when GG visits his current lover and finds her undressed - - surprised , she grabs the first thing she can find to cover herself , which is of course a poster of herself naked ! The editing is sloppy , the sound is fuzzy , and the finale left me scratching my head ( is it Giancarlo's fantasy or for real ? ) , but I liked " Lovers And Liars " / " Travels With Anita " for the little glimmers of good humor . Besides , Hawn is always worth a look . from
Jean Simmons never performed without vanity . Even here as a struggling sophisticate ( a schoolteacher who takes a part-time secretarial job in a " sleazy " nightclub run by guys named Tony and Rocco ) , Simmons is coiffed to the gills and everything about her breathes Park Avenue . This inconsequential drama-lite is peopled with lovable low-lifes and features a smoky but mostly scrubbed-clean hot-spot at its center , yet the energy and fake-pizazz may win you over . Paul Douglas and Tony Francisosa work well together as co-managers of the club , and Simmons ( nicknamed " Baby " ! ) is tolerable as the intellectual who improves their personalities . Good supporting cast includes Neile Adams ( looking like a cross between Carol Haney and a young Liza Minnelli ) as Joan Blondell's daughter , and Julie Wilson as a torchy singer who comes on like Patti Page . Robert Wise directed , under the usual MGM gloss . from
Strict all-girl boarding school in 1955 Massachusetts is the setting for thoughtful , gentle , if familiar tale of two senior dorm roommates ( one tall and lovely , the other a flat-chested hoyden ) obsessed with boys and " doing it " for the first time . From " Blue Denim " in the 1950s to " Love With the Proper Stranger " in the ' 60s and " Racing With The Moon " in the ' 80s , it seems every generation gets a movie like this one ( usually set in the nostalgic past ) wherein sexual proclivities are often seen as life deterrents . Pamela Sue Martin doesn't have the range of a studied actress , yet her dryly engaged manner and mature , offhand observations ( mostly cynical ) make her an appealing screen presence . Betsy Slade , on the other hand , does seem studied , but this doesn't work for her wallflower character ( she's too world-weary , too ready to fall apart to really become embraceable ) . The film's ' 50s milieu is extremely well-judged , from the all-important ' mixer ' dance to the best mid-priced hotel , from the authentic cabs and cars to the desolate building of the nearest abortionist . Does the movie pack any more of a punch than your average TV drama covering this same territory ? Probably not , but it has a resonance that stays with one , even if the plot functions and characters have been utilized before , after , and since . from
Jean Smart is a tower of strength as married mother of two who follows a hunch one afternoon and tracks her husband of 20 years to a hotel room - - where he's cozily wrapped in a white terrycloth robe and making chit-chat with a strapping man in a matching towel . His secret's out ! Of course this is all cliché by now , and some viewers will bemoan that fact and give up right there , but the TV film " A Change of Heart " addresses these issues with a lot of forceful emotion and realistic exchanges . There's hurt , and anger , and tears , but it doesn't sink into sap . The male lover isn't given any dimensions - - and seems to have a great home of his own , so why were they meeting in a hotel ? - - and the teenagers involved are tiresomely belligerent , but Jean Smart is the acting centerpiece here and she does the movie a world of good . Her speech to the board of directors where she and her husband work is flawlessly handled , and her bravura spirit at the end will give a lot of viewers hope . A good actress can do that .
Writer-director Noah Baumbach's style is almost unlike anyone else's in the movies right now ; and , as both a writer and a director , he's amazingly compatible working both sides of his talent ( his dialogue is the music while his direction - - and the nimble editing - - provides the rhythm ) . A small group of erratic , confounding and humorously twisted family members are reunited at a prospective wedding in Long Island , with the estranged Margot ( Nicole Kidman ) behaving as sort of a ringleader to the inner-chaos ( she's not necessarily a reminder of old hurts , but she brings them up anyway , as if it's her duty ) . Baumbach allows his characters to tease and torment each other with quiet , yet unsubtle prodding , and the free-flowing scenes play out beautifully , just like music . If there is a downside to this style , it's that Baumbach can often be too knowing , and when a line or a performance is too clever it can appear forced . Jack Black was a wonderful choice for Malcolm , the unemployed , slacker-bridegroom who finds swimming pools disgusting and the thought of being famous too threatening because of the rejection involved ; however , Black is allowed too much time to find the humor in his slovenly character . He is perfect when he's made out to be the dupe or the target of girlfriend Jennifer Jason Leigh's frustrations , but when he tries to conform to Baumbach's image of Malcolm as an enraged clown , the affectation shows and we lose both the substance and the irony of this man ( we get more than we need - - and more than we already perceive to be there ) . Baumbach is also perhaps too brazen staging talks of a sexual nature between adults and children ; this works extremely well when the subject matter is touched on by just the younger people , but Margot's relationship with her pubescent son ( which Margot already accepts is too entwined ) skirts uncomfortable parameters which may be more amusing if the characters on-screen laughed a little too ( it's left too blasé ) . The movie is brittle but never coarse and seldom vulgar ; it has a great , wounded heart and very perceptive ears and eyes for passive-aggressive arguments and multi-layered misunderstandings . This family can't get over their neuroses because they don't see themselves as neurotic - - only each other , and the world . It's summed up nicely in a scene with Margot and her gift-bearing husband when she tells him , " I hate getting a present that I already have . . . It makes me feel like you don't really know me . " from
She runs , she sings , she prances ! Julie Andrews is back as another nanny ( or , governess ) to rambunctious children ( this time 7 ) but her magical powers are confined to a guitar and a lilting soprano . The love story between she and Christopher Plummer doesn't work because his haughty decadence seems more in tune with Eleanor Parker's ice-poison beauty than with Andrews ' overeager tomboy . Cast as Maria , a novice hired away from the convent , Julie isn't always the jovial Mary Poppins here ; she's rather stern and overly precise , and when she returns as Plummer's wife , there's an awkward chasm between she and the family , as if they're asking , " Who is this new person ? " The songs are fine , and the kids aren't offensive , but I can see why some call this " The Sound of Mucous " . It's ladled with indifference . from
Fred MacMurray is a Southern California insurance salesman who stops by a client's house one afternoon to renew a contract and meets the client's wife , an anklet-wearing , glinty-eyed dame with blonde hair styled like a lascivious doll . They flirt a little , but when she starts inquiring about taking out a life insurance policy on hubby without him knowing about it , MacMurray gives her the brush-off ; no matter , she looks him up in the phone book and winds up on his doorstep ! Canny , clever murder-plot concocted by director Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler , via James M . Cain's novel " Three of a Kind " . Cain , who also penned " The Postman Always Rings Twice " ( which this plot has a faint trace of ) , masterfully knew how to create sultry , no-nonsense broads who get what they want , and Wilder's handling of Barbara Stanwyck in this role is sensational . MacMurray , on the other hand , always looks about to blanch , and his character ( savvy on customer relations ) falls prey to Stanwyck mighty quickly . As Fred's boss , Edward G . Robinson does well with a sketchy character , though his wordy summations and ' intuitions ' are just plot contrivances , pushing this story along to its inevitable conclusion . " Double Indemnity " is not without flaws , and has become overrated in the last several years , though it is ripe with scintillating , low-life dialogue and does build suspense even though we all know where these characters are headed - - to the cemetery ! from
Taking James Bond back to the basics - - literally , back to square one - - might have seemed a daunting task , as the 007 franchise had been waning in recent years ( for a myriad of reasons ) and the idea of a " prequel " , if you will , may have been rather risky . Fortunately , this fined-tuned Bond is what a lot of fans have been clamoring for , and new addition Daniel Craig brings James into the 21st century with thuggish aplomb . Curt , compact and arrogant , he's a secret agent who isn't above making big mistakes , his own ego often times his worst enemy . James attempts to infiltrate a terrorist organization , and within the first ten minutes the film has globe-trotted so far across the map that you may be wondering who all these villains are and what their place in the story actually is ( the movie opens curiously in black-and-white , with a confrontation and also with a flashback ! ) . Judi Dench's " M " really lets James have it for ' needlessly ' killing a bomber whom they hoped to interrogate , but she has a change of heart ( indeed , quite a number of them ) after Bond becomes involved in a high-stakes poker game in Montenegro with terrorist-operative Le Chiffre , a real poker-face ( and asthmatic ! ) with a bloody tear duct . " Casino Royale " is jam-packed with excitement , it looks terrific and has many moments of action , romance , macho violence , and even beauty . The one thing it does lack is humor , but we may get more of that next round . from
A recently paroled convict , who as a teenager shot and killed a young convenience store worker , is left to find his way in society ; he's offered a custodial job from a hot-tempered , streetwise pastor , and hopes to connect with the sister of his victim in order to complete the cycle of redemption - - but he finds it isn't that easy . Billy Bob Thornton gives a controlled , emotional performance that comes from deep within . The film isn't quite in balance - - and has some quirky , uncertain moments near the beginning that either don't ring true or just don't feel natural - - but stick with it and you might find resonance in the extraordinary acting and the way the story arcs in just the right way . Terrific casting and performances , atmospheric production and locales , several amazing , emotional moments . from
Robert Shaw leads a group of stooges in the violent hijacking of a New York subway train ; Walter Matthau is the acerbic detective assigned to the case . Nearly-perfect urban thriller adapted by the ingenious Peter Stone from John Godey's book . The atmosphere is charged with tension throughout ; one can almost taste the grit in the air and sense the palpable dread , though the film isn't quite the ugly downer its chilly production makes it appear to be . Screenwriter Stone displays his darkly comic sense of humor in several instances , leading to a fabulous conclusion . Curiously , some professionals critics were put off by the film , yet the suspense is sustained remarkably by director Joseph Sargent , and Matthau is priceless . from
Bea Arthur is wonderful ( as always ) playing a widow who becomes reacquainted with her high school squeeze ; trouble is , he's got a relationship going with a young sexy thing , but may just dump the nubile girl for this older , more sensuous woman . One of the best lines has Arthur dressing herself up for a date in frilly clothes , looking in the mirror and dead-panning , " I look like Dolls From Around the World . " She's a stitch , and works well with sturdy Richard Kiley as the old-flame . Arthur didn't get many opportunities to shine in feature films ; on television , her exasperation and earthy , what-the-hell disposition feels very intimate and real . Too bad this hearty TV-movie hasn't been released on DVD , we could use more of Bea Arthur's dry-martini magic . A highly enjoyable show .
A perversely enjoyable unease permeates this psychological thriller from writer-director M . Night Shyamalan , here following his commercial success with " The Sixth Sense " in top form . A comic book connoisseur with an alarming , lifelong bone density deficiency befriends a security guard who was recently the only survivor of a massive train derailment ; convincing the survivor he may in fact be unbreakable proves to be quite tough . . . however , even super-heroes have a weakness . Meticulously mounted film features one of Bruce Willis ' best performances ; he is altogether convincing , vulnerable , touching , and sympathetic as a modern-day man afraid of what powers he may possess . The film does err on occasion ( a sequence in a comic book shop at night is confusing , and the picture's main color scheme - - steely blues and grays - - becomes visually monotonous ) , however the wonderful script and performances take the movie to a higher realm for this genre . There is a great deal of art in Shyamalan's presentation ( including a gorgeous shot of Robin Wright Penn being carried up the stairs ) , and he works wonders with the supporting cast - - even the two-line players are perfection . from
Chronicling the restoration of Alfred Hitchcock's masterwork " Vertigo " , we get background information and amazing behind-the-scenes photographs and gossip about one of the greatest films ever made . I loved getting to see those rare pics of Hitch in San Francisco , and that original cover of the French novel " D'entre les Morts " , upon which " Vertigo " is based , is stunning ( try finding that in a pinch ! ) . Roddy McDowall narrates in his inimitable , non show-offy way . The quick interviews with Kim Novak , Barbara Bel Geddes and others are very enjoyable . Perfect for whetting the palate for a " Vertigo " viewing , so put them both on ( this one first ) for a stylish , informative evening .
Connie Stevens once again shows what a fine , natural actress she is , here playing a young lass from Wisconsin who must spend seven nights in her late father's house of horrors before she can receive her inheritance ; Dean Jones plays a reporter who smells a story and befriends the easily-spooked girl . Terrific second-biller from Warner Bros . , ostensibly aimed at kids ( " Attention Guillotine-agers ! " ) yet bolstered by a very strong script with nice attention to dialogue . The movie has good effects , funny / spooky scenario , and surprising chemistry between the two leads . Stevens is very good , especially in the prologue playing her own character's uptight mother . It all comes to a commendable ending , thanks to a very clever . . . EXECUTION ! from
Classy , rapid-fire comedy that combines " His Girl Friday " with any one of the Spencer Tracy / Katharine Hepburn battle-of-the-sexes . The set-up of the plot is rather hoary and contrived ( gruff city editor of a New York newspaper - - who is so anti-education that he hates the smell of chalk - - falls for a journalism teacher ) , yet the writing and the deft handling are so assured , you can nearly forgive the sitcom devices . The actress at the beginning of the film who begs Clark Gable to fire her son is such a wonderful , believable find that she gets the picture off on just the right note ; Gable and teacher Doris Day are lovely together , fighting and flirting and completely at ease in their roles . When Gable finally plants one on DD , she turns away in a huff , only to melt with wobbly knees . It's a fantastic moment in this unjustly forgotten , underrated classic . from
