Just plain rotten " thriller " { . . well , that's what it's called anyway } about three teens supposedly murdered by an escaped convict . There was a fourth " victim " named Steve who knows more about the mysterious happenings that night than meets the eye . Also unearthed is the unfortunate secrets withheld from policeman Charlie . His mother was a looney played by cult-queen Linnea Quigley ( . . who must've REALLY needed the money ) and he slowly begins to see bad memories of visiting the asylum for which his nutjob mother was being kept . Sheriff Duncan ( Joe Estevez who needed to speak up a little louder so we , the viewer , might understand what the hell he was saying ) and Charlie's dad ( Bob Farster , whose acting is a farce ) finally come right out and spill the beans about why he was never told about his real mom . Meanwhile , Det . Amy Rodgers ( Nicole Bueher , who might need to keep her career options opened ) can not shake the feeling that the case of nutzoid Jessica ( Amy Brown ) isn't as guilty as laid out in the perfect package as it seems that the one remaining survivor of that fateful night , Steve ( Michael Kessler , who needs to try out those wonderful acting schools that have the ability to shine turds like this actor ) might know more than he has spoken . On and on this deadened paced movie goes , but I left my enthusiasm to care around the opening credits . . they moved like a turtle just as the film does . Nothing about this film is professional . I felt like some supposed filmmakers and their friends got the bright idea to make a movie . Perhaps they had friends in low , low places such a Robert Z'Dar and Quigley who both never get enough screen time to build strong enough characters . Quigley does bare her breasts momentarily and the film shows moments of blood , but even the crime scenes are uninspired . The shoddy script and limp acting , bad editing . . all lead to one thing , a director who just doesn't know how to tell an interesting thriller or inspire a viewer to care .
Pointless , juvenile , absolutely worthless ( . . unless you just have an urge to see stars from the original returning to reprise their roles ) sequel to the original Sleepaway Camp ( . . the second and third films featuring Pamela Springsteen in the " prominant " role of Angela are completely disregarded , which is probably a good thing , I guess ) has a psycho-killer , in black hoody , targeting those who victimize and mistreat extremely repellent frog-devoted Allan ( Michael Gibney ) , always the center of negative attention in regards to practically everyone , in constant disagreements , arguments , and skirmishes with the teenagers / adults in camp . He's either starting trouble or the recipient of it , but Allan is certainly a lightning rod towards the inner-workings of the plot . . the film displays many embarrassing scenarios featuring the flabby whiner and people die because this . When the mean teenagers belittle and abuse him , Allan retreats into the woods to find refuge with his frogs . Allan has a crush on Karen ( Erin Broderick ) who assists her friends in playing a practical joke leaving him quite scorned resulting in quite the killing spree towards those who delighted in his misery . A penis is pulled from a counselor whose bound , by rope , to a tree . A female counselor gets her head and face twisted in barbwire while attempting to flee in a jeep . A black teen girl , often at heated odds with Allan , is squashed by a mattress of nails . The head counselor over the Camp has his head caught in a cage after awakening from a hammer blow to the head , tied , with rats to feed through his face , shown gnawing within his torso . One pot-smoking slacker is burned alive after being force-fed gasoline , with his stomach exploding . A real practical joker who often bullied Allan gets a wooden spike stabbed through his eye . And , a vulgar cook who ridiculed Allan endlessly , gets his face shoved into cooking grease . Lots of of-screen violence , but some gore should please those who found the original SC lacking in this department . Fans of the franchise ( . . which I'm not ) might find this irresistible , because RETURN feels positively dated , attempting futilely ( . . in my opinion , at least ) at sophomoric humor , failing miserably . Cast of really obnoxious teens and profane adults couldn't die fast enough as far as I was concerned . Perhaps many will feel this captures the wacky spirit of the original , RETURN is an aimless exercise highlighting the crude and unruly behavior / shenanigans of the camp's teenagers . . the adults who are supposed to be in charge of supervising these brats are about as bad , if not worse . The film feels like it was written by 13 year olds and we are witnesses to wedgies , lighted farts , fat-jokes / gags , and other grating activities . As I pointed out already , I'm pretty sure a whole bawdy crowd will embrace this with open arms just for it featuring returning " stars " , Paul DeAngelo as counselor Ronnie ( . . still in stunning athletic shape , but still lacking in the acting department ) , Jonathan Tiersten as Ricky ( . . blond this time , still needing his mouth washed out with soap ) and special guest Felissa Rose as Angela in a cameo ( . . and in another secret role as well ) . WE have a sheriff often popping up after murders take place trying to keep everyone civil as a killer is on the loose . The identity of the killer will surprise no one unless you are REALLY that gullible and / or easily fooled . Sad and unfortunate , this was Isaac Hayes ' last role , playing a very disgruntled cook . Vincent Pastore is the lead camp counselor with a special fondness for his pet bird he often embraces with a kiss .
Two huge virus-based bats from Indonesia escape from mad scientist Dr . McCabe's lab infecting others in the dusty realm of small Gallup , Texas where Sheriff Kimsey ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) finds citizens being attacked viciously . The Center for Disease Control call on Dr . Casper ( Dina Meyer ) to help figure out how to stop the bats from spreading the infection on bats throughout the country . She is bewildered at why fruit bats would turn carnivorous , assaulting humans and finds that McCabe designed for them to do so . When asked why McCabe would design these bats to do such things , he answers , " Because we're scientists . That's what we do . " Okey dokey . With help from Casper's partner Jimmy ( Leon ) , she'll assist Kimsey in trying to trap the " roost " ( this is a term describing the entire bat group collectively in one location ) annihilating everyone of them before they have a chance to move on to another spot . But , will McCabe allow them to destroy the monsters he created ( . . for the military . . yawn ) ? And , better yet , will the bats comply to their wishes of staying put ? In the center of the film , Gallup is attacked by the swarming bats with people dropping dead one after the other . Really , really stupid " animals run amok " flick doesn't have a smart bone in it's body . And , the director tries convincing us with rubber bats ( which look like rubber bats ) through dizzying editing techniques and blurry stretches of the camera lens as they attack . Truth be told , they are about as menacing as Kermit the frog . Even worse , they expect us to believe that bats can throw a large male through a windshield while tossing others grown men through windowed doors . The film is an unintentionally hilarious monster flick . The cast try their best with a dumb plot .
A serial killer of families , Horace Pinker ( Mitch Pileggi , really overexerting himself ) , makes a deal with a demon or evil spirit or something for which provides him with an opportunity to travel from human body to human body thanks to some sort of electrical current spawning from a botched execution in the Chair . He has one main goal , other than killing as many families as possible , and that is to kill his son , Jonathan ( Peter Berg , whose face remains frozen in a state of cluelessness for most of the picture when he isn't constantly running from the killer ) . He already brutally murdered Jonathan's mother and lover Alison . . he even kills the guy's football coach and pal ( Ted Raimi , Sam's bro ) . Michael Murphy ( why is he in a movie like this ? ) portrays Don , Jonathan's foster father and cop trying to nab Pinker and then worried about his son Jonathan sore afraid he's losing his mental faculties as well with all this talk of Pinker flowing through the bodies of different people and electrical outlets . Jonathan's pretty lucky Pinker couldn't shoot if his life depended on it because he wastes two different guns trying to plug him . Once Pinker has become this electrical traveling journeyman , only one thing can stop him from taking over a host shell until the lifeforce is sucked dry . . strong willpower or a specific heart-shaped necklace worn by Jonathan's beloved victim of Pinker . Soon , Pinker and Jonathan battle inside the television switching from program to program until his football buddies shut off the main power to the city closing the gateway of electrical travel . Really , really awful Wes Craven vehicle is bad beyond mere mortal words . It has lots of special effects in it , but the story-telling is so insipid , uninspired , and reckless you never fully know how the hell Pinker could accomplish such a feat . The film is crippled by ineptitude thanks to the premise's overall goofiness . What also hurts is the fact that Alison's ghost seems to fight Pinker . . how ? The necklace that seems to weaken Pinker and how Alison just communicates away with Jonathan . . these elements just compile to create an unmitigated disaster . By far one of Craven's worst films . . if one didn't know Craven's other films , probably couldn't believe there isn't an amateur in the director's chair calling the shots . I mean the film never makes much sense and creates situations for it characters as it goes . What a disaster .
The tenants of a decrepit apartment complex fall prey to a killer hidden slightly out of the camera frame with the viewer only getting a glimpse of hands and , at times , a shadowy figure in the darkness . The film's main focal point are " twins " Sarah and Tess who are staying in adjoining rooms but never seen together by anyone other than us ( . . and even that is through an oddly tilted mirror ) . Sarah is the quiet , kind , caring sister while Tess is a grungy , sad , volatile who was recently a member of a psychiatric facility . Amanda ( Stacey Dash , who looks terrific ) , with assistance from dear old daddy , Gus ( James Avery ) is the new apartment manager who wishes to relieve herself of older tenants so that she can hike up the rent . Then there's Tess ' former attending physician Dr . Sheppard ( Judd Nelson ) who has been having a recurring nightmare of his murder at the hands of his former patient . Shep will seek her out because he's afraid that Tess is still not mentally well and needs help . Soon a drug-pusher Sarah has a history with named Brian ( Adam Huss ) , an old busybody , Elsa ( Michael Learned ) , and two goofy friends of Brian's ( Mark Shunock & Marshall Cook ) are all potential victims . Sarah has a transvestite pal named Hector ( Andy Martinez , Jr ) & a new love-interest named Ian ( Todd Babcock ) . Carpenter , in the leading " dual " roles , is pretty dreadful , Judd's had better hair days , the film lacks any suspense , is boring & cliché . Seek your entertainment elsewhere .
Four college students are on holiday driving to Miami for some sun , making the mistake so many idiotic characters in slasher movies make . . instead of staying on the main highway , the driver , Steve ( Josh Macuga ) decides to take a " short cut " onto a country road leading into " middle of nowhere " West Virginia . Almost out of gas , the group encounter a book bag containing money and a person's belongings ( . . a journalist we see fall into the trap of a psycho at the beginning ) when David ( Ernest Dancy , the token black character with attitude , who likes hip hop and saying the f-word ) finds it while draining his lizard . Nearby town of Rolling Glen ( . . with no gas station ? ! ) has a buried secret that will be unleashed on these kids and selected citizens before the night is over . . a black truck driver named Ray Williams was severely beaten , face rendered a hideous visage , by drunken locals and dropped at the old Dixon place in Ellis . Ray's body wasn't recovered because he isn't dead . . far from it . Creating a plaster mask to hide the monstrous face he now endures , his identity and humanity lost , now lives off the animals of the wilderness , killing anyone who dares " invade " the territory of the Dixon area . David pleads with the others to leave for Miami with the 500 dollars they found , but Steve's girlfriend , Maggie ( Kathryn Merry ) insists they seek out the identity of the person whose bag was found . An address of the Dixon place written on paper in the unknown journalist's bag , Steve and company find it , deciding to stay the night due to the fact that they are in fact out of gas . Audra ( Raine Brown ) and Steve decide to wait at the Dixon house while Steve and Maggie see about information regarding the nearest gas station , heading for a local bar . That's where they hear about the local legend , and the truth regarding Rolling Glen's crooked sheriff , Earl Taggart ( Gerard Adimando ) who covered up the attack on Williams , the ones responsible never seeing a moment in prison . Returning the house , Steve and Maggie will find out from David that Audra's missing and the terror commences . Polished cinematography aside , PLASTERHEAD is simply another cheap , run-of-the-mill slasher with limited graphic violence shown on screen . The fate of Audra is pretty unsettling ( Williams uses barb wire to drag her by the mouth from behind ) and another victim's guts appear from an open wound . The killer of the title is merely a black version of Jason Voorhies . . uniform , walk , weapons , everything . The bad casting of Adimando , fighting a thick New York accent , doesn't convince as a hick sheriff . The premise has been done to death regarding college kids making the wrong turn into West Virginia due to heavy highway traffic . And , I have a really hard time believing these kids are gonna pick up 500 bucks and constantly pursue the identity of whose cash it is . The most unpleasant moment is the make-up work for Williams , seen at the beginning , before applying the materials needed for his plaster-cast . Raine Brown , as slutty Audra , fails to convince with that phony Valley-girl imitation . . a bit old for such a tired cliché . None of the characters rise above their stereotypes , and the cast is pretty amateurish . Jason Snells score loudly intensifies , attempting to add suspense to a movie that lacks atmosphere or dread . The house is about as menacing as Micky Mouse and doesn't particularly seem as ancient as the Rolling Glen locals ( . . or the outsiders who make plenty of snide comments regarding how old it looks ) would have us to believe . The film does feature a really grim conclusion , but PLASTERHEAD lacks the necessary budget needed to truly grip us . . having to shoot away from Williams ' attacks on victims proves this . Confusing attack on employees at a diner made little sense to me . . how come Williams decides to attack them ? If they have been around for a while , why would he just up and decide to kill them ? Ludicrous performance from Tom DiNardo as Artie , a foul gas station mechanic who doesn't have any fuel for Steve and his friends ( . . woefully attempting to sound and act like a disgusting redneck , his New York accent remains bleeding like an open wound as DiNardo fails miserably to hide it ) . If you wish to have realistic hick carciatures , hire southern actors who actually have an accent . . don't hire New Yorkers who sound like they came right out off the streets . A real waste of time .
Moronic gory exercise about a priest who hangs himself in a Dunwich graveyard resulting in the opening of gateway ( s ) to Hell . How this comes to happen is anyone's guess . I'm guessing it's the significance in the location . In folklore , Dunwich was built over the ruins of Salem . . the witch's playground . Now , how hanging yourself in a graveyard in a town once housing witches is one thing , but how a priest's suicide unlocks the gates of hell is another . If Fulci would just take the time to explain the reasons why a priest's suicide could do such a thing , I might be a little closer to accepting this poor excuse to throw up gore scenes and supernatural hocus pocus . The zombies are incredibly photographed , but understanding how they come to be and why the priest brings them back to life confuses me . Okay , this priest hangs himself , comes back as some sort of ghoul who finds victims , scaring them to death . Once they are dead , the victims come back as zombies pulling brains out of poor people's skulls while their backs are turned . Some actually come from thin air , I'm guessing because they represent some sort of fear , but trying to come up with answers to all this foolishness was tiresome . Some perv named Bob gets a drill all the way through his skull thanks to a vengeful father whose daughter was almost molested by him . The film has a woman psychic who actually dies during a séance where she sees the priest kill himself . . how she awakens and why are a mystery . Anyhow , she gets a reporter to take her to Dunwich to find the remains of the priest before " ALL SAINTS DAY " because if he arises , the dead will walk amongst the world to feed on flesh . . they do already , but that is beside the point . You know , thanks to a psychiatrist who lost his girlfriend to the priest's fear ( . . and comes back as a zombie ) , the three find the burial tomb of the priest , but it is too late since ALL SAINTS DAY had begun . Oh well , Fulic just abandons that whole line letting the priest die anyway when he gets a cross thrust through his stomach as his torso burns to ash ( . . and so are his relatives who rise momentarily to moan a bit ) . The film is so incomprehensible and badly conceived , one should simply watch for all the bloody effects like one of the priest's victims who vomits up her intestines . Have a nice day .
What if you had the genius of Hitchcock's ROPE and took a giant crap on it . . this foul-mouth , modern updating on the perfect murder ( s ) has this psycho named Nick ( Rick Otto , looking like a young Ethan Hawke , without the talent , merely a cocky obnoxious a$$hole ) whose holding a going-away party for his pal , Jimmy ( Lucas Babin ) who is ( un ) surprisingly missing as their friends gather together to drink and smoke weed ( . . often through this very unusual bong ) wondering where the man-of-honor is . Quietly , Nick murders each one , through various methods when the others as a group are away , developing his perfect plan in place . The professor , obsessed with the art of crime and death , Hal ( Glenn Quinn ) is who inspired him to attempt such a feat . Despite Nick's use of damaging weapons , the director cleverly avoids showing any grisly violence . The film really plays with the wickedness of the situation as various people attempt to leave the party , dying at Nick's hand when he gets them alone . " R . S . V . P " is almost completely set in Nick's uncle's pad , except for the opening sequences setting up the rest of the film ( . . a murder investigation leading into a class , taught by Hal , and the beer drinking toast between Nick and Jimmy ) . Brandi Andres portrays Jim's girlfriend , Nick's ex , who the screenplay sets up as the final girl . Jason Mewes pretty much plays his Jay character from " Clerks " as a wise-cracking druggie , care-free and the life of the party . He easily steals his scenes if you can appreciate his brand of comedy . Despite director Mark Anthony Galluzzo's ambitions , this is really just another run-of-the-mill slasher where you realize that the killer will eventually make that one mistake , despite somehow amazingly succeeding in carrying out a parade of murders without getting caught thanks to a screenplay that allows him to , which will lead to his downfall . Veterans character actors Jonathan Banks and Lynch icon Grace Zabriskie portray Walter and Mary Franklin , Jimmy's uncle & aunt . I treasured their time on screen , because they bring a sense of relief that you can appreciate , especially once they " exit " the film and we're back stuck with the hard-partying brood . The film is full of sequences involving discussions on death and those whose lives revolved around murder . . . along with plenty of sex jokes and Mewes tongue wagging at the sights of tight female asses in jeans . Slasher fans might enjoy some of the tongue-in-cheek murders such as what Nick does to an uninvited guest , a neighbor from next door who interrupts the well-developed plan .
Having revisited POLTERGEIST just recently , I was startled watching this sequel in just how far it deteriorates in overall quality from one film to the next . Native American mysticism and a crazed cult leader spirit desiring to capture Carol Anne are injected into the story of the sequel where we discover that the Freelings were living above a cavern containing the skeletal remains of a group led by Reverend Kane ( Julian Beck ) proclaiming the end of time was near . . seeing that he was wrong , Kane doesn't allow them to leave . Kane and the restless spirits of his cult wish to have Carol Anne back after tasting what life was like with her presence , not ready to go into the light . Kane is now a demon , pure evil , and the Freelings need assistance from a Shaman in order to defeat him . The Freelings ' powerful bond of love will ultimately determine their outcome against Kane , The Beast . The special effects sequences almost border on parody , not at all scary , but more unintentionally hilarious , such as when Robbie's ( Oliver Robins ) braces go amok or when Steve ( Craig T Nelson ) swallows a " possessed " worm in a Tequilla bottle , with Kane attempting to use him to harm his family , regurgitating it ! This worm starts to grow back into Kane's humanly form ! It's quite gross and would perfectly fit in a goofier monster flick , but the POLTERGEIST franchise was supposed to be a more sophisticated horror enterprise , and the remaining sequels just mercilessly ravage what made the first film so good . I couldn't help but wonder what JoBeth Williams and Craig T Nelson felt while making this sequel , an obvious decline in all areas from the first film , from the rather embarrassing plot to the dialogue they are forced to endure . The sequences where the family must go into the other side to stop Kane once and for all just buries the legacy this franchise might've had , but perhaps there shouldn't have been another film anyway . There wasn't lightning in the bottle twice . Heather O'Rourke is still adorable as Carol Anne , Zelda Rubinstein , in a glorifified supporting role , stops by to help the Freelings the best she can ( . . having delved into the history of what took place in the cavernous dwelling under their house ) , and Sampson as the Indian shaman is a charming , welcome presence who wishes to bestow wisdom to the family often just confusing poor Steve whose life has fallen on hard times thanks to the spirits which won't leave Carol Anne alone . You have lots of special effects as Kane's supernatural power surfaces when Steve allowed him into the house ( . . such as an electrical wire and running chainsaw that go berserk ) and icky creatures designed by HR Geiger . Geraldine Fitzgerald has a small , but pivitol role as Diane's mother who informs her and Carol Anne that they are all clairvoyant . . she serves as a type of protection against Kane . You can just sense that this sequel should've never taken place , merely a cash-in to repeat the success of the far superior original . Kane ( . . Julian Beck , whose cancer really brings an extra dimension to his character ) is quite a memorable menace and this perhaps saves the film from complete crapdom . All the skeletons that reach out to attack ( . . including a nightmare dragging Diane underground ) are effective .
Underwhelming , rather gore-less creature feature with no surprises concerning a Sasquatch ( Taku he ) running loose on Echo Mountain , attacking those illegally hunting . Miles O'Keefe is the true heavy of this flick as poacher Ed , out to get the Bigfoot and an Indian Ranger Eagleheart ( Nathaniel Arcand ) who actually saved his ass . Ed loses some pals to the angry Sasquatch , inlisting others in town to go back into Echo Mtn . to get those he deems responsible . The local media consider the poacher attacks as merely caused by an endangered grizzly . Richard ( Dylan Purcell ) is a smart high school kid who understands nature and wild-life regarding their habits and behavior but has been having trouble passing tests in class . He's asked by his disgruntled professor to join up with jock Jay ( Brandon Henschel ) who needs an to graduate the class . . and high school . . to develop an assignment on endangered species . Jay will coerce Richard to spend a weekend on Echo Mountain with his cousin Jenny ( Chelsea Hobbs ) , who has a crush on him , and sweetheart Shea ( Casey LaBow ) hoping to find a grizzly recorded on camcorder therefore achieving that elusive grade he needs to pass class , hopefully impressing his teacher in the process . Sheriff Drake Kassel ( Jack Conley ) attempts to keep order with a mayor breathing down his neck to find that bear which killed those poachers so that locals will quit worrying about it . . that , and the mayor doesn't wish for some killer bear to ruin tourist season . Into Echo Mountain with the dreaded Sasquatch shown from time to time spying on potential victims behind bushes and hanging leafy branches and uttering guttural growls when enraged . " Clawed . . " is practically ready-made for the Sci-fi channel in that most of the violence occurs off-screen and even when we see the aftermath of the monster's attacks , rarely are they that gruesome or stomach-churning ( . . one hunter's holding his recently removed guts , another's face was torn into ) . There's a light amount of profanity and a peek-a-boo shot of LaBow's nicely developed breasts . The kids aren't that obnoxious ( . . well , except for Jay who likes to play practical jokes on his peers and hurl lame insults at nerdy Richard ) , and O'Keeffe as Ed , hides his eyes under a cap most of the time , speaking his dialogue under a bearded scowl . The Sasquatch isn't the least bit scary , and looks like a costume . Nothing that memorable here . You'll probably forget about it soon after it's over . . " Clawed . . " will hide quietly in the ever-growing number of Bigfoot / Sasquatch flicks that have increased in size over the years . Even the location itself can not enhance the rather dull experience .
A " suicidal " curse has been unleashed on a bible belt Southern town of Grovetown due to the murder of a practicing witch who was accused of killing a local in a nearby river . The suicide of the witch's son at the beginning of the film , specifying a chant from the Grimoire , invokes the curse causing it to spread from one victim to another after each individual is forced to kill them self by the conjured evil ( . . the evil is a reflection of them , their fate shown right before the victim dies ) . Aidan ( Thomas Dekker ) , is the remaining family member of the witch , her son , until his cousin , Sadie ( Margo Harshman ) arrives . Lindsay ( Elizabeth Rice ) , is a pretty , kind teenager who offers an olive branch to Aidan when he's attacked by the local minister's vocal son , Dylan ( Kelly Blatz ) . Lindsay and Dylan are an item , but this relationship deteriorates over time due to their differences towards Aidan . . to Lindsay , he's a suffering victim whose mother's murder was covered up as an accidental burning , while Dylan sees him as a weapon of the devil who must be put an end to for the safety of his Christian flock . When Lindsay herself receives the curse , she asks Aidan for help while Dylan sets out , with help by local believers , Roy ( Adam Goldberg ) and Paul ( David Ariniello ) , to purge their town of the evil that exists within . As typical of films like these , Christians ( . . and their faith ) is presented as backwards , ignorant , antagonistic , overwhelming , intolerant , and overly aggressive , even to the point of resorting to cruelty and violence ( . . obviously those involved in the making of this film presented this as a symbolic reminder of the " Burning Times " ) The witches , however , are presented as innocent victims , suffering indignity and wrath for choosing to refrain from the religion of those around them , in turn , victimized for whatever horrors might take place , just for what they believe in . A murder ( . . by the local minister , no less , covering up a homosexual tryst with the victim ) begets another . . the witch receives the blame for the crime committed in her backyard and is executed for it . We witness how Christianity is a harmful threat , riddled with corruption , and those that oppose the religion , are set up for potential danger . . it's a presentation that is often brought to the screen this way which is a shame , because not all Christians are such loud , chest-thumping tyrants willing to inflict such damage towards unbelievers . The film's supernatural threat resembles those often seen in the Asian revenge ghost genre , with the setting of a backwater town full of Christian bigots the relative difference . Some recognizable faces pop up such as Bruce Willis and Demi Moore's child , Rumer , as an early victim , Jared Harris as her father , and a completely unrecognizable Adam Goldberg as a vulgar , often imprisoned , representative of the trailer park community , who Dylan uses as an enforcer ( . . of , course ! ) to settle " conflicts of faith " . Laura Allen stars as Lindsay's alcoholic white trash step-mother Trish and Brittany Robertson portrays her school pal , Claire . While the threat of the curse is recognized , the evil Christians , led by the domineering , confrontational Dylan , are presented as the ultimate weapon of destruction . Through the materializing friendship between Lindsay and Aidan , we see a developing uprising against her for " consorting with evil . " Blatant manipulative writing such as this rather irks me because it often displays such a general disregard for those who believe in something the filmmakers clearly do not , and this provides them with an opportunity to demonize them . . a pulpit to use Christianity as a horrifying threat to the world that must be stopped , and only can through witchcraft . Not particularly violent , we watch as terrified victims are confronted by their frightening mirror images , soon perishing when there's nowhere left to run .
" Come on Roy . . get your hands dirty . " MAJOR SPOILERS present . A psychopath has taken the disguise of dead notorious serial killer Jason Voorhees and is murdering anyone associated even remotely with a viciously destroyed orphan named Joey . The setting is Pinehurst Mental Institute in a backwoods locale near a small town which serves as a final beacon of hope for releasing patients back into society . Tommy Jarvis ( John Shepard ) , now grown , is still suffering nightmarish visions of Jason , hockey-mask on his face , most often a bloody weapon in his hand . Practically mute and quite emotionally damaged , Tommy keeps mostly to himself while his psychologists , Matt ( Richard Young ) and Pam ( Melanie Kinnaman ) , hope to snap him out of the problems plaguing him . A very unstable patient , Vic ( Mark Venturini ) , who has no reason to be holding an ax in his hand , suffers a psychotic break when a plump annoyance , Joey ( Dominick Brascia ) with a penchant for getting under the skin of those he is around , pushes him over the edge resulting in a grisly hack-job . Almost immediately afterward , anyone nearby Pinehurst is killed in various ways by a maniac who surprises them . The film continues to monitor Tommy and his visions of Jason offering the possibility of himself being the murderer . Anyone who antagonizes him are beaten to a pulp because Tommy doesn't respond to well to bullies who push him . This sequel is infamous for taking the franchise in a new direction , moving away from Voorhees allowing someone else to wipe out a massive number of victims using any number of weapons . An ax , flare ( ! ) , pike , hatchet , and machete are all put to good use stabbing a variety of mentally disturbed patients . Director Danny Steinmann likes to establish a look of surprise on victims ' faces before the moment of death . The evidence is clear that Steinmann had to cut many scenes , specifically during many of the murders . Leave it to the MPAA to spoil the entertainment of slasher fans desiring blood-shed . The film suffers from an endless amount of obnoxious and poorly developed characters , some just thrown into the film to die . A heavy dose of tits are paraded for out viewing pleasure . While Debi Sue Voorhees has a legion of slobbering males celebrating her hefty-size chest , I was particularly fond of red-head Juliette Cummins ' perky rack . Anyways , the movie itself doesn't stray too far from formula despite the fact that Jason himself isn't actually the killer responsible ( . . although , Steinmann makes sure his presence is always felt ) . . victims are set up as lambs to the slaughter . Several victims who are murdered by the psycho aren't shown on screen at all , while most of the slayings aren't elaborated that much . Sure a weapon slams into a body , but Steinmann veers away , his camera honing on the response of those being butchered . This film really does look like it was a victim of serious scissors at work . I often wondered what kind of film this would be intact . Would it in fact rival those great Savini gore-fests ? We may never know . The pretty Kinnaman and Shavar Ross , as a black kid who lives at the institute because his granddad is the cook , are the obvious innocents who run for their lives at the end as the psycho aims to add to them to his death list . Miguel A . Núñez Jr . has a small role as Reggie's jerry-curled bro , Demon , who gets it in the john of all places . Corey Feldman has a very minor cameo opening the film in a dream sequence spying on two kids disturbing Jason's grave , getting killed , with the hockey-masked slasher coming towards him . I thought Shepard , who had very few lines , was very effective as the quiet , troubled , and distressed Tommy Jarvis , displaying the proper amounts of anguish and sadness needed for the character . It's a performance that this film doesn't deserve . This sequel has developed quite a cult following over the years because of Steinmann's decision to go change the identity of the killer , and the overall sleaziness of the film . Crude profanity and rampant vulgarity have earned the mom and son duo of Ethel ( Carol Locatell ) and Junior ( Ron Sloan ) notoriety . The idea that a paramedic was the one responsible for such remarkable feats as killing so many people with such skill and surviving many attacks at the end infuriates a great many Friday fans .
A killer , wearing a plastic white mask and black overcoat , is killing the friends of Hollywood producer Shawn Banning ( Danny Wolske ) who inherited his position when someone sliced open his former employer from crotch to chest . Perhaps the psychopath is newly hired Maddy ( Dabbie Rochon ) , an attractive , raven haired beauty with a troubled family past , plagued with nightmares . Shawn and his friends play a practical joke on Maddy , concerning a supposed Murder Club they started where each member randomly selected a victim to kill . When Maddy accidentally murders a woman in a parking garage because of a dent put into her car by this person , she finds that Shawn's pals were jerking her chain . But , Shawn and his comrades are concerned about Maddy's admittance towards committing the murder and contemplate turning her into the proper authorities . Deciding to wait on a definite decision , each member fall prey to the white-masked psycho with Maddy a suspect considering the fact that she already has killed before . Or , is someone else behind these murders ? Low budget slasher , executive produced by Charles Band , with gore murders that fail to convince . Plenty of tits on display and Allen Nabors goofy character Chris might entertain those with low expectations . The murders include a stomach being opened with intestines showing , a neck sliced , an electrical cord thrown into a pool frying a female victim who had all day to escape , an ax buried into the back of a male victim , and , to top it all , a couple are strangled by a rope during their sexual climax ( . . for added effect , the killer uses the breaker bar of a socket wrench as extra leverage to twist the rope as tight as possible snapping their necks ) . There are enough plot holes to drive a truck through , such as why Maddy has nightmares of murders she didn't commit , how she could murder someone so violently ( . . with blood all over her ) winding up waking in her bed without leaving something at the scene of the crime that would easily implicate her , and how Shawn could go so long , allowing her to continue working at the company despite what she told regarding the murder she committed , and a continual desire to join the supposed club that doesn't exist . What bothered me the most was the film's desire for having us somehow sympathizing with this female protagonist who wanted to join a club after killing someone , later proclaiming it to be an accident . The film builds Maddy as the potential psycho throughout because of her past . Her family disowned her for an abortion . She has black-outs and always appropriately winds up at the scenes of crimes after the fact . In a lot of slashers , the one who seems the most likely killer is often the red herring , but this film goes out of it's way to point the finger at Maddy . When the twist occurs , we're left rooting for Maddy , yet we know she's not right in the head . It's a tough sell caring for this chick . She does look great in a man's Army shirt , though . And , Rochon isn't afraid to let her puppies breathe , either . Low budget horror fans will get a kick out of seeing cult favorite Brinke Stevens as a religious fanatical mother who preaches against what Maddy did , calling her a murderer as beloved Troma producer Lloyd Kaufman is the aloof father who can not get in a word edge-wise to protect the daughter he truly cares about . Cult siren Julie Strain has a minor cameo , showing her tits ( of course ) as the opening murdered male's girlfriend getting her head crushed by a hammer . Oh , and check out the office for which Shawn works , you'll see a lot of Full Moon posters and art-work spread throughout the walls .
Two sisters and their boyfriends are being terrorized on desert roads by psychopathic trucker Rusty Nails . Melissa ( Nicki Aycox ; Dead Birds ) and fiancé Bobby ( Nick Zano ) are to be married , traveling with sis , Kayla ( Laura Jordan ) to Vegas for a bachelorette / bachelor party . Kayla stops off to pick up a Myspace date , Nik ( Kyle Schmid ) , to the dismay of Melissa and Bobby . . he's dressed with a leather jacket , rings in his lower lip , and tattoos ( . . a funny scene dispels Nik's disguise , proving that he's not exactly the Goth he's portraying ) . Melissa and Bobby find Nik's immature behavior intolerable ( . . he's your basic clown , rude and crude , not knowing how to shut his yap ) , but they , against their better judgment , take a detour off the highway believing it would get them to Vegas quicker . The station wagon ( . . the sisters ' grandmother's car ) gives up the ghost as they hit a dirt road , and on foot they find a seemingly abandoned farm house and barn . Inside the barn is a practically new muscle car , and the gang reluctantly take it to get on their way to Vegas . It just so happens that the muscle car is Rusty Nails ' and he reacts less than positively to their taking it . Kidnapping Bobby , RN plays a series of mind games with Melissa , Kayla , and Nik . . for Bobby's return , RN demands certain requests . Attempts at trickery fail and RN will cause them a world of pain along the way . This sequel ratchets up the violence considerably as Rusty Nails is proved to be one sadistic bastard . First he demands Kayla's middle finger as a bargaining chip for Bobby ( . . she flipped him off and he simply wants what's his ) . When Kayla and Melissa's idea of snipping the finger from a female corpse in the morgue , RN acts accordingly ( . . a finger for a finger ) The second challenge ( . . Nik , walking into a crowd of partying truckers in drag to score some Crystal Meth ) is disrupted when Nik attempts to escape . Kidnapping Nik , RN takes the boys to his home , forcing them into a game of " torture craps " with the roll of the dice choosing what level of pain would happen on a specific location on the body . Soon RN causes Melissa and Kayla to crash that sweet ride , and has a collision in store for them as they lie upside down and vulnerable . A showdown will commence between Melissa and RN with Bobby's fate hanging in the balance . Unlike the first film which retains Rusty Nails ' mystique , JOY RIDE 2 practically strips him of any mystery whatsoever . He's merely a brute who likes to brutalize and antagonize . I think the original film's appeal was the voice across the CB radio ( . . the ominous voice provided by Ted Levine ) which was of vital importance . . no face , just the sound of a voice calling for Candycane . It wasn't the physical body of the trucker , but his creepy voice's serious tone and the diesel he drives . He becomes just a cold-blooded thug with an ax to grind ( . . while he has a right to be angry for some kids taking his ride , but there are less evil ways of handling such matters ) . The film is riddled with the typical clichés . The bad idea of taking a detour when you know you should ALWAYS stay on the highway . The cell phone that doesn't work . How Rusty Nails is always one step ahead of the gang , knowing their every move . The final girl who attacks her predator with a shovel , pummeling him once or twice before throwing the weapon to the side to see about her boyfriend , instead of making damn sure he was incapacitated , or , better yet , dead . The finale might remind many of DUEL , except JOY RIDE 2 has a preposterous closing which defies simple logic .
The mysterious deaths of nuns is investigated by the Catholic Church sending a new breed of priest in Father Valerio ( Carlo De Mejo ) , hoping to find a killer in the convent . Valerio believes that the idea of a supernatural evil force lurking in the convent ran by Mother Vincenza ( Franca Stoppi ) is pure rubbish , instead seeking a demented psychopath amongst them , committing murders . What Valerio doesn't realize is that Vincenza is in league with Satan , having cavorted with the lord of darkness , hiding their female spawn in the attic of the convent . The nuns under Vincenza's watch have been driven to fear , with many of them overcome by demonic possession . . any opposing threats , such as the elder Father Inardo ( Andrea Aureli ) who tries to use the rites of exorcism in cleansing the nunnery of it's evil , are destroyed . Vincenza will do whatever it takes to keep anyone from taking her daughter away . In other words , Valerio has a spiritual and physical battle on his hands . Bruno Mattei mentioned in an interview for the DVD release of " The Other Hell " that this flick was remastered from an obscure 16 mm print , having been a flop during it's initial release and abandoned . I guess , even though it's such a bizarre demonic horror nunsploit that often lacks in coherency opting to blindside the viewer with unhinged behavior and gory violence , that we should be somewhat thankful that this film can be seen at all . I can sure say it wasn't boring . Franca Stoppi sure lets it all hang out as the evil Mother Superior , wielding a knife at the end ready to viciously stab anyone that got in her way . There's this witches ' den with a burning cauldron , coffins containing murdered nuns , a slab for " wicked nuns who committed sinful atrocities " where we actually see one dead corpse get her innards plucked , laboratory tubes and flasks bubbling with liquid , etc . There's this cool tunnel leading to the den containing rows of skulls , kind of a " cryptic " form of art . We actually see a possessed nun tormented by blood-oozing stigmatic attack . The priest , Father Inardo is set on fire in his attempts to exorcise the nunnery . We see Franco Garofalo's grounds-keeper / animal wrangler / cook Boris ' hand covered in maggots and bitten by a dog . . he's later attacked in the throat by an unleashed dog . We see an actual rooster beheaded for later din-din . Vincenza and Satan's spawn lives in a small room where dolls and mannequins hang from the neck . We see a previous Mother Superior actually attempting to boil Vincenza's infant daughter in a pot on a stove ( . . and for goofy effect , which might have many chuckling with glee , Vincenza's infant , clearly a doll , telepathically murders the Mother Superior ) . Plenty of audacious moments on display certainly to entertain those craving the twisted delights Mattei and writer Claudio Fragasso churn out in doses . I guess this is probably Mattei's best film . . quite an outrageous concoction of surreal and horrific images . I think it , if anything , will entertain those that are not offended by the blasphemous material . The Goblin score , used from Buio Omega , somehow actually works in this film .
Indie Corman flick about how the lives of a group of Hell's Angels , particularly leader Blues ( Peter Fonda ) , change when one of their own ( Bruce Dern ) is harmed after stealing a police officer's bike . More of a curio regarding neo-nazi riders living by their own rules and partying non-stop , but I kind of felt there's not a lot here except that . This is obviously made for a certain crowd who probably worship it , but I felt it was just dated and silly . It does kind of get disturbing how reckless they live and that mantra of doing things their own way while thumbing nose at " The Man " was probably certainly embraced at that time when the world was changing because of Vietnam . Their behavior is questionable , but I found their chosen symbol of the Third Reich more artistic dressing than representing Hitler and his evil path . Has an interesting cast such as Nancy Sinatra as Mike , Blues ' love interest and Diane Ladd as Gaysh , the lover of Loser , the one badly wounded . More for those who love seeing a group of rowdy roughies getting wasted , dancing gleefully to silly beach pop tunes , and living it up in depravity .
The town of Heathville's local doctor ( Bela Lugosi ) who is quite mad , unleashes a bat raised in secret laboratory to strike selected victims with a special after shave he had created . What makes Lugosi's doctor more sinister is that he's beloved by Heathville's citizenship . What pushes Lugosi's demented state of anger is the firm for which has made a lot of money off of him , though this element in the story is truthfully unconvincing and merely an escape-goat for the setting up of bat-murders . He feels rejected by those who have profited from his genius . A newspaper reporter and his photographer come to Heathville on assignment to find answers to the mystery of the bat for a special story in their rag . The key to the doctor's downfall is inevitably what draws the bat to it's victims . Ultra-low budget does perhaps limit this film and the story is just too bizarre to take at all serious , but there's a degree of joy in this film that makes it an entertaining watch . Lugosi's career didn't quite flourish like his contemporaries , and the evidence is right here in this low-grade B-film . The swooping bat and it's screeching cry as it dives for it's neck-feast is a hoot and Lugosi , bless his soul , gives what he can to a meaningless film with only it's hokey quality to advance it's recommendation . Definitely for lovers of junk-cinema .
Inaccurately detailed account of the effect Ed Gein had on the lives of Plainfield , Wisconsin , following the burdened sheriff's department and , in particular , the new deputy whose life would change forever when the psycho kidnaps / brutalizes his mother . While Kane Hodder proves that he can be even more menacing without make-up as a serial killer , he doesn't look at all like the Ed Gein we have read about , and seen photographs of . Director Michael Feifer's camera always keeps the actors closed in tight , perhaps a sign that he didn't have enough budget to fortify a realistic county . I felt a bit claustrophobic with this style , hoping that we could see more of the rural trappings within where Gein moved freely , creeping locals who were seemingly unaware that he could be some serial killer kidnapping folks . But , the camera only gives you so much , so you are forced to look at the faces of the characters up close , so the cast had to be up for the challenge . Unlike other users who have commented rather badly about the cast , I never found any of the actors unconvincing . I agree that the film's direction geared more towards the deputy's relationship with the sheriff's daughter and his beloved unflappable mother , may be a mistake because the title is " Ed Gein " , not " Days of the Lives of Plainfield's Deputy out to find Ed Gein " . The screenplay and film's execution clearly set up the fact that deputy Bobby Mason's ( Shawn Hoffman ) mother and girlfriend would be targets of Gein . Priscilla Barnes easily has a handle on Bobby's mother , Vera , making her a concerned and proud parent of her boy . Adrienne Frantz is Erica , Bobby's girlfriend , a pretty little chick whose doomed to be the final girl , who is badly hurt in a car crash when her man drives haphazardly down a dirt road after finding out Vera went missing . The film shows brief glimpses into Ed's psyche , with his mother barking orders reaffirming to the viewer that his childhood was a difficult one that has warped this man . We also see Ed in his barn carrying out gruesome deeds on a trapped victim , a kind waitress who is tied to a table , kept sedated as he removes her limbs . He eventually creates a costume from her flesh . As an Ed Gein film , it doesn't hold up I'm afraid . Researching the back story , it seems the filmmakers took liberties to craft their own tale of a lurking psycho always seeking fresh victims . This interpretation , unlike two previous films ( " Deranged " & " Ed Gein " ) stays away from elaborating what drove Ed to commit his deeds , using only images of an angered mother and voices driving him over the edge into rage and sadness . Another major problem is that Ed Gein isn't supposed to look like a scary , hulking menace and Hodder's character would be the first suspect in an investigation for missing and dead people . And , I'm hard-pressed to believe the real Ed Gein could suffocate a caretaker with his arm , snap his neck after underpinning his head between two trees , before smashing his skull with a log . I think , though , that Hodder , judging from this film , could be utilized in slasher films without wearing heavy make-up , because he has a sinister presence that can be a real asset if you are wanting an effective psycho . Unlike other films on Ed Gein , which infuse bits of twisted black humor , this particular tale is completely dark . Ed Gein never seems anything but an imposing figure on the edge of snapping at a moment's notice .
From the " killer canine cannon " comes this mediocre horror outing , Man's Best Friend , regarding a genetically enhanced mutt with DNA of many dangerous animals injected into it making the dog particularly lethal towards those that tick it off . A journalist looking for her big break , is invited by a nervous employee at a scientific institute run by Dr . Jarret ( Lance Henriksen ) to peek inside the corrupt practices regarding the horrifying mistreatment on animal test subjects . This employee is attacked and killed by the powerful and unpredictable canine , Max 3000 , who has been supplied a drug suppressing it's violent tendencies , but thanks in part to snooping kind-hearted journalist , Lori Tanner ( Ally Sheedy , just adorable in the movie ) , it is released from the institute and Jarret is unable to coerce it back into the cage . Hopping into Lori's vehicle , Max will soon infiltrate her life , their bond keeping her temporarily alive as it poses a threat to suburbia and everything within it . Lori's beau , Perry ( Fredric Lehne ) doesn't find Max very comforting , particularly due to the canine's jealousy of anyone coming between dog and owner . Meanwhile , a very worried Jarret , who knows that the drug he administered to the dog will only last for a certain amount of time , confides reluctantly with police detectives in finding Max before it loses control and becomes completely volatile towards everyone / everything in it's path . I imagine writer / director John Lafia had a field day coming up with ideas regarding Max and the damage he could inflict on people and animals . It actually climbs a tree after a cat and eats it . It can actually adapt to it's environment and blend in like a chameleon , doing so and frightening a couple of goofy dog-catchers away . After being sprayed in the eyes with pepper spray , Max actually hunts down and bites into the ankle and throat of a postal worker who had delivered mail to a home . A sadistic mechanic ( . . played by the surprisingly imposing William Sanderson , who rarely acts so cruel ) assaults Max with a shovel across the head , even taking to it's face with a lit blow torch , before the canine clamps down ferociously onto his crotch ! Max pisses acid into the face of a victim it doesn't like , and pretty much sexually molests a collie who attempts futilely to escape from the canine . Even an insulting parrot ( . . actually taught such naughty , inflammatory words by a neighborhood kid ) makes the wrong gesture towards Max , getting eaten ! I think Lafia , though , establishes right away that Max is a product of man's own engineering . . it would in all likelihood be a very hospitable and loving pooch if Jarret hadn't injected the DNA of a rattlesnake and tiger into it . And , we are privy to what Jarret does to his animal test subjects with the footage recorded by Lori and her camerawoman , Annie ( Trula M Marcus ) , so Max is a victim of unhealthy scientific experimentation . Henriksen , as Jarret , is often presented as desperate and scared , sweating and always urgent because he know what kind of killing machine has been released on the city . His whole career and well-being is centered on Max's protection and capture . Like many films of this nature in the 90's , punches are pulled ( . . we don't even get to see how Max killed a despicable thief who attempts to mug Lori's purse ) , with the scenes where Max attacks animals and humans not that gory as the camera immediately pulls away as it bites down or inflicts harm . This kind of film would probably be rated PG-13 and transition easily to cable television . Certainly maintains the Hollywood polish , often featuring cute comic scenes concerning Max's behavior within a normal suburban environment ( . . and it's reactions towards people and situations ) where it doesn't truly belong .
The heiress of a major corporation ( . . called The Manhattan Corporation ) decides to flee to the trash heap of Bronx , getting caught in the middle of a gang war as a hired ruthless cop , Hammer ( Vic Morrow ) is charged to get her . This heiress , Ann ( . . the lovely Stefania Girolami , daughter of the director ) finds herself in the company of The Riders , whose leader Trash ( Mark Gregory ) keeps her safe . This endangers the group as Hammer will target them , attempting to pit The Riders against The Tigers , led by the formidable , highly regarded Ogre ( Fred Williamson ) . Other gangs patrol their own areas attacking those who enter their territory , such as The Scavengers ( . . who look like rejects from The Stone Age ) and The Zombies ( . . roller skating hoods with funny looking chest wear and white helmets ) . When Ann is kidnapped by the Zombies , Trash will gather two of volunteers in an attempt to ally his gang with Ogre's but must enter through other group's territory's in order to do so . Meanwhile we discover that within The Riders is a trader , Ice ( Joshua Sinclair ) who is working with Hammer and a diesel driving weapons supplier , Hot Dog ( Christopher Connelly ) who has been attempting to pit his gang against Ogre's so that chaos could ensue . The Bronx , no longer policed & left to rot and ruin , is a scar to the rest of the large city and seeing gangs warfare with each other doesn't bother those far from such violence . Hammer , born in Bronx , is a mercenary for hire who doesn't care about anyone and enjoys the role of killing people , particularly gang members . And , once Hammer discovers Ann's whereabouts , he gets Ice involved in negotiating her to Manhattan Corporation , but if Trash is able to join forces with Ogre , then such a plan will have complications . Obviously another Italian imitation of ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK & THE WARRIORS , director Enzo G . Castellari attempts to keep the action front and center despite the many problems weighing against it . . such as the absurd casting of Mark Gregory , without the look needed for the role of a tough leader of a motorcycle gang ( . . his uncomfortable walk and teenage face , not to mention his vacant delivery ) . The costumes and make-up for the gangs are modeled after THE WARRIORS , except in 1990 , they aren't as effective as they are laughable . The hideous , crude , vulgar dialogue spoken throughout the movie by all the characters is a laugh riot to behold . The action set-pieces themselves , however , are entertaining and thrilling . . lots of bodies being stabbed with plenty of hand to hand combat . Slick Vic the Hammer is a joy to watch , slippery in how he infiltrates the Bronx , blasting a couple with his shotgun . Williamson is allowed to kick some ass as Ogre , always cool , with a cigar , bright blue shirt and shiny jeans , with a cane that has a sword ( . . he gets to chop a head off with it ) as his weapon . Perhaps the show-stopping set-piece is Williamson in battle with gargantuan George Eastman ( . . as the pony-tailed leader of the Zombies ) to the death . Gregory never convinces as the hero , so it's up to Williamson to pick up the slack . . although , Gregory does have an effectively emotional moment where his Trash discovers a friend , damaged and dying after being attacked by the Scavengers . Betty Dessy is actually quite effective as Ogre's companion , Witch , a tall , long-haired blond who can wield a mean whip , with sharp steel claws ( . . applied to her fingers ) that buries into the torsos of enemies like blades . Hammer and a heavily armed task force plan to besiege Ogre's fortress with all manner of hell breaking loose ( . . including blow torches assaulting victim's faces and machine guns dropping running gang members ) . Before the film ends , nearly everyone is dead . The ruins of Rome serve the setting of a fallen Bronx quite well . The film is pure testosterone . See this for the action choreography , because 1990 : BRONX WARRIORS is a pure trash epic without a hint of originality .
Harvesters live among us , vampiric ghoulish predators that feed off our fear and pain , even killing so that they can receive that major high their addictions so desire . For some reason , Ian Stone ( Mike Vogel ) is sent through a variety of lives , a hockey player , office rat , taxi driver , junkie , and quadriplegic . Each life grows worse than the last as Ian is stalked by beings who can take the shape of humans , their true forms existing within a black mist , eyes blazing a ferocious red . Yet , Ian has a mysterious ally who informs him that he must protect Jenny ( Christina Cole ) , a pretty blond who seems to exist in every life as a potential love interest . Ian's main nemesis is Medea ( Jaime Murray , who looks quite sexy in tight black , and red , leather ) , a malevolent harvester who is wanting to know something he's supposedly hiding . . it has to do with an act against the harvesters and Ian is suffering life to life for whatever it is . Will Ian be able to protect Jenny from these creatures or give up the secret he has buried so deep within ? There is a legitimate reason why Ian doesn't truly die . This reason he's so sought after is becoming more and more clear from lifetime to lifetime . I will admit that I was a bit frustrated for a while due to how this film was unfolding . Moving from one life to the next , I think we're supposed to be bewildered because the viewer is confronting the same scenarios as Ian . The whole point , I felt , was that the viewer is to experience what Ian is . . it's an unfolding mystery as we learn why he's going through each situation , and how Jenny is a part of this , unlocking through each perilous battle ( . . and death ) . Unlike many , I thought the harvesters were rather neat creatures . . I guess you could describe them as smog-ish , they almost exist within a ominous cloud of smoke , with these angered faces and enraged eyes , charging at victims ( . . and , most importantly , Ian ) scaring folks , with their fear exiting from their mouths and feeding the predators . The premise will be undoubtedly silly to many , even cheesy perhaps . The scenes where Ian is locked into a neck harness as Medea and her co-horts torture him reminded me of " Jacob's Ladder " . When the harvesters often attack , their hand forms into a crustacean type of claw as they slice or stab victims . When they are actually stabbed ( . . by their own ) , we see the harvesters vaporize . The film itself looks great thanks to Stefano Morcaldo's polished professional cinematography . And , Elia Cmiral's music score gives the film an immediacy as Ian often runs for his life . The action scenes are given much more tension , also , thanks to Cmiral's work . I will say that the film's structure is liable to test many a viewer's patience , but I thought this worked as popcorn escapist fare . I do think director Dario Piana aspires to create much more than just escapist fare , but the complex nature of it all can be quite a nuisance . At best this is a play on the " cat with nine lives " theme with evil fear-sucking ghouls thrown in the mix .
Gullible nobody Sean " Crawl " Crawley ( Chris McKenna ) is duped by cunning , imposing building constructor , Ray Mathews ( Daniel Baldwin , as mean as ever ) into murdering a pesky accountant , working for City Hall , who has incriminating evidence against him . Upon the scene of the crime after a startlingly violent attack , leaving the accountant dead in his kitchen , Crawl wisely decides to confiscate those important documents that Ray so desperately wishes to retrieve , passing it off to his only friend in the world , nerdy zoo-keeper , George ( Timm Sharp ) for safe-keeping . Meanwhile , Ray and his cronies , Duke ( George Wendt , vicious and malicious in an uncharacteristic role ) , Beckett ( Vernon Wells ) , and Carl ( Lionel Mark Smith ) attempt to force Crawl's information regarding the whereabouts of the documents , by beating him to a pulp . . held prisoner in a foul shack located at Ray's desert ranch house , each member takes turns swinging a mean golf club across Crawl's skull ( . . his head is reinforced with ripped mattress to soften the blows enough not to kill him ) leaving his face swelling and mind disoriented . Escaping through savage means ( . . his work on Duke's neck to break free is a nasty bit of business ) , Crawl's disposition favors the Elephant Man , and he just so happens to come across the homeless shelter run by gentle-hearted Susan Gatley ( Kari Wuhrer ) . Nursing him to health , Crawl is mad in love , but a dilemma arises . . she is the wife of the accountant slain by his hands ! An intimate relationship ensues , but how long can Crawl keep the truth from Susan , not to mention keep himself safe from Ray ? Probably one of a few disappointments I've had sitting through a Stuart Gordon film . Basic revenge tale , with Crawl getting even with those who wronged him . The film is crippled from predictability . . you can easily figure out the outcome of the entire story . You know Sean will escape certain death and that he'd eventually meet , and fall in love with , the wife of the very one he killed . You know that , despite how his mind-boggling decisions to associate himself with obvious crooks ( . . who never appear to be trustworthy in the slightest ) and kill an innocent man will bring nothing but trouble into his life , Crawl will somehow escape from his difficult situation . And , I had a really hard time feeling anything for Crawl , the guy brought all this on himself and poor McKenna has to somehow make this character worth rooting for . . to his credit , he almost pulls it off ( . . some might feel he does , but I still found him contemptible even as he gets his retribution towards those who caused him such misery / agony during the torture ) . Wuhrer does what she can with a rather underwritten , clichéd part as a lonely woman with a father-less child who finds comfort in the arms of Sean . . I had an awful hard time , to be honest , seeing what such a woman would see in him ( . . perhaps crippled souls find some sort of solace during passionate embrace , but I had a feeling she'd not fall for such a mysterious fellow who arrived at her shelter so badly beaten ) . Wendt and Baldwyn are suitably loathsome as hissable cretins who service the plot as bait for the audience to cheer against . The violence is , at times , shocking , but unlike in the past , Gordon pulls his punches a bit . Wuhrer does have a couple of sex scenes with McKenna , but Gordon doesn't remain with these acts of passion too long , although she's still quite a sex kitten . In my opinion , one of Stuart Gordon's weakest films . The title refers to a remark Duke makes to Crawl after nearly strangling him , pointing out how he's similar to an ant .
Alien ( Arthur Roberts ) , from a nuclear devastated planet , needs blood not only to keep himself strong , but for his people from home as war ravishes there . He brings in nurse Nadine ( Traci Lords ) to apply transfusions often so that his strength will remain . His eyes glow so he has to keep a pair of shades on unless retrieving the life force of victims . . he also uses mind control over the inferior humans who are weak against his power . He has a blonde servant , known for his criminal activities , named Jeremy ( Lenny Juliano ) . Nadine's boss , Dr . Rochelle ( Ace Mask ) is a mind control victim of the alien's and does as he wishes . If anyone even mentions his name as a possible suspect in the rash of crimes taking place , where corpses are being drained of blood , Rochelle will not implicate him . Various bimbos become victims as Nadine , her cop boyfriend Harry ( Roger Lodge ) , & Jeremy begin to suspect their wealthy employer , Mr . Johnson being his disguised earth name , may be . . Not of This Earth . Johnson keeps a gateway housed in his study which works as both a portal between worlds and a telecommunications device to his leader . Soon Johnson discovers that he'll possibly not be able to return home when a female alien passes through the portal to earth informing him that a bimbo he sent was crushed during the travel . Needing blood , the female alien is accidentally given blood , through a transfusion conducted by Johnson , infected with rabies that sends her into a violent frenzy wiping out a group of punks and hunting / executing an innocent woman . The discovery of the female ( . . coupled with Nadine and Jeremy's snooping ) could lead to the revealing of Johnson's true identity . To be honest , my true recommendation towards others is seeing Traci Lords in various states of undress or wearing dresses and / or skimpy , scantily-clad clothing that reveals her magnificent body . She's undeniably a sexy woman who does a capable job in the starring role opposite the stone-faced Roberts as an emotion-less alien killing machine , while Juliano as the slimy Jeremy , with a thing for Nadine ( . . who could fault him for that ? ) is a hoot . The special effects sequences at the front are really not needed and rather detract from the rest of the film which has nothing to do with those images of various alien monsters terrorizing . There are a number of spirited weirdos who often frequent director Wynorski's trashy pictures . But , Lords is the film's highlight , ESPECIALLY in that blue bikini . As Lodge's cop Harry pronounces as she walks away from him . . " Phew , have mercy . " Have mercy is right !
A motley band of desperate , unemployed , penny-less characters desire to rob Pawn Dealer Jack Warden's safe while he's off to visit his mother . Sutherland at first shrugs robbing his boss ( for the time being ; his job as Pawn shop security is threatened when Warden mentions a desire for an alarm system ) , but has motivation when he sees he'll soon be unemployed again ( . . and losing his cable box only makes matters worse ) . Warden is the " bad guy " of the film , a penny-pincher who stiff those seeking a much larger sum than he's willing to pay for their valuables . The thing is though , as Warden tries to tell the film's characters as they come in to sell stolen merchandise or valuables from their own homes , that business is business and turning a profit is essential . The flick clearly exposes the unemployment hike and immigration pressure in early 80's Reagan era . Sean Penn ( . . tries on a Southern accent to give his character flavor and fails miserably ) plays a wannabee musician , often seen blowing on his harmonica or clanging away on a guitar in Warden's pawn shop he had to give away , who is Trinidad Silva's thieving partner as they often commit petty crimes such as stealing car radios from BMWs only to get close to nothing from Warden for them . Penn takes a personal interest in Silva's sister Tasia Valenza , courting her when dear brother's back is turned ( Silva is overprotective and wishes to pair Tasia with a bartender of his own choosing from Mexico ) . You have Wallace ( MY DINNER WITH ANDRE ) Shawn as an always-hungry pauper who is friends with Sutherland and hangs around the pawn shop playing chess all day ( it's rare you don't see Shawn eating something which is a gag the film plays to the hilt ) . There's Larry Riley as a would-be pimp stuck with the baby of a former " employee " . Following the cast of supposed safe crackers are Christine Baranski as a meter-lady who writes the tickets for those who stay parked too long on the side-walk who likes to moonlight as a slut and Charlayne Woodard as an always-unemployed maid who hooks up with Riley . All that said , this is a forgettable , minor film from critically acclaimed director Louis Malle with a decent cast not having that much to do . It supposed to play as a bumbling-thieves comedy , but seems to want to take a detour into character study . I'd say unless you just wish to see the film for it's cast , this is a very skippable film which ends with the characters looking quite silly at staging such an attempt towards cracking the safe . They still face what we saw them against at the start of the film . After watching the film , I just felt that this flick wastes our time .
A coastal Maine town is rocked by two vicious murders to traveling females which are similar to the deaths within a visiting troubled writer's novel , " The Reaper " . Famous novelist Luke Sinclair ( Chris Sarandon ) , notorious for his grisly , detailed violence in his books , is struggling through writer's block deciding to get away for a spell hoping to tap into the primal side that unleashes the creativity which yields the stories that have made him such a success . He believes we all have an ability , primal , to kill , but many of us know how to control it . Government sends a forensic pathologist , Sonya Lehrman ( Catherine Mary Stewart ) to the town to assist the sheriff's department in the case . Sheriff Norris ( Vlasta Vrana ) doesn't make it easy for Sonya , as he's not used to being ordered around " by a girl . " Sonya tries to cope with Norris ' " backwards ways " while trying to find the serial killer before he copycats the final murder from the " Reaper " novel . Luke seems to know a great deal about how the murders might've occurred as Sonya interviewed him , probing his thoughts and feelings on the two open cases . His boozing , and not taking prescribed pills to assist a mental disorder certainly don't help Luke's standing while a killer is being pursued . Understanding the psychology of the killer also makes him an ideal suspect . Slowly Sonya begins to develop feelings for Luke as his life begins to crumble due to alcoholism , a souring marriage , and media coverage of his possible criminal involvement in a double-murder case . The film also offers a possibility of Sheriff Norris ' less than polished career as a Boston detective and certain knowledge of a tattoo found on the second victim . To be honest , without some nudity ( . . the sight of two naked bodies , not exactly elaborating too much as the director does a good job of removing the camera shortly after we first see them ) and coarse language , " Reaper " actually plays like a Lifetime movie . The violence in this film is more discussed in details than shown . The film is quite dialogue , and performance driven . It's overall a detective thriller with multiple red herrings used to throw the viewer of the scent of who the killer really is . Some soapy melodrama thrown in with Luke and Sonya's developing feelings adding a bit of spice to the proceedings .
In a post-apocalyptic future , an " Inworlder " , Judy ( Marta Alicia ) resists the Infinisynth way of life , wishing to experience reality instead of the paradise of pure fantasy ( why ? ) where the world can be created at her choosing . There are few lucky enough to be an Inworlder and Judy wishes to go above ground and see the real world . Her mother embraces Infinisynth and has practically abandoned Judy for the fantasy world she's hooked into to . Judy wishing to communicate with her mother , is able to enter her fantasy causing a system malfunction . This system error kills Judy's mom , and she finally is allowed by the Systems Operator ( the person / godhead over maintaining the Infinisynth program with an overhead helmet and these peculiar wires which stem from it emitting blue light ) to have her wish . These mysterious police drug her with a hypodermic and Judy awakens on the cold , barren surface . Almost sinking in a quicksand death-trap , Judy is rescued by " Crawlers " , mutated cannibals who scavenge the surface at the command of a leader from underground . She is to be taken somewhere , but Stover ( Bruce Campbell ) , a regular human whose ancestry have since perished as the surface is an unforgiving place often causing " brain disease " , nasty facial sores , and death , saves her by vanquishing them with his crossbow and sword . They fall in love but are soon kidnapped by mutants and carried into a " Crawler's hole " which tunnels straight into an underground hellhole of darkness , garbage , and junk-metal . Underground , led by a homicidal , psychopathic intellectual named Seer ( Angus Scrimm ) who was once an Inworlder has the cannibal mutants under his command , adapting a religion and totalitarian environment where his voice is one of power and dread . The Crawlers are hideous with no language , just grunting . . . they are mostly used as workers trying to find anything of value from civilization of long ago ( such as the motor of a blender ) and when no longer of use ( such as one mutant whose hand is chopped off in an accident ) are put away . Cornelia ( Elizabeth Kent ) is Seer's sore-spotted maiden ( the marks on her face do not remove her slight beauty , though ) , with a nasty attitude , who has a slave named Claude ( Wendy Sandow ) , a timid mute who has been rendered quite fragile and weak by this underground world that would remove the strength of many a normal person . Judy will try to coerce Claude into helping free her from the bondage of leather arm straps , while Stover , put to work with the mutants , has removed the blade from a bender hatching a plan of escape . A cruel bit of irony is that Seer might be someone Judy has been looking for . . his plans to pro-create with Judy add a grotesque spin to this already blood-drenched gore-fest . What one must never forget is the Infinisynth machine and the world Judy was " released from . " Even though it seems the film is about escaping this society of monsters led by a pure human madman , the Inworld way of life doesn't completely fade from the plot . If you like the Mad Max films , this might be up your alley . Bruce makes a great hero , even though he finds himself always at odds against many more men often besieging him before he can save the woman he loves . The underground hellhole and Scrimm as the mutants ' Messiah add an extra bit of " fun " to this B-movie gore-fest . There's one scene where Scrimm's Seer removes the eyeball of a victim before throwing her into a chopping machine that drenches blood from the one being cut to ribbons for a ceremonial drinking ( . . no , I'm not kidding ) . Bruce gets a chance to slice throats , penetrate blades through mutant scum , even sword-fight with Angus . Scrimm displays his menace with a guilty-free calm . . he's flat-out bonkers , but carries himself like a quiet gentleman which makes him even more the creep than the typical over-the-top lunatic that often portrays these kind of characters . Marta Alicia is okay , I guess , but she's damned sexy so she's granted a reprieve if her character of Judy fails to truly grab you . I say see this if you liked the recent sequel to Alexander Aja's remake of " Hills Have Eyes " . . both resemble a lot . I don't think it's all that memorable despite carrying two horror icons . The most unpleasant sequence , other than Scrimm's chopping machine , is when these leech-like sea-slugs enter Campbell's body , crawling underneath his flesh towards the back of his neck ( how they are released is also a nasty bit of business , I must say ) .
A virus-infected cannibalistic maniac , who needs to be killed because in a certain time he'll supply a plague that will danger mankind as he is a carrier , attacks humans using a curving knife with a spiked handle . Cops Christopher Lambert and Natasha Henstridge must pursue him into ventilation ducts which lead to an old , shut-down prison where he feels right at home . He becomes the predator and the cops become the prey as the prison is quite darkened and the monster is able to move quickly with cunning and skill . He also uses a gun that shoots the hell out of Lambert . Lambert's other partners include Liz Barondes and Norbert Weisser who wind up being hunted as well . As Weisser goes for help ( there are scientists in quarantine suits on their way and Andrew Divoff is the leader who understands what is wrong with the maniac on the loose . . if only he'd share with the rest of us ) , the other three must fend for themselves in an environment the quarry understands a lot more than them it seems . Once the maniac riddles Lambert and Barondes with bullets it'll be up to Henstridge to save them . Surprisingly suspenseful with a lingering foreboding due to the decrepit , darkly lit prison setting . Director Albert Pyun decides to close his camera in on the killer's ferocious fangs and blood-shot eye . Most of the time , he's shrouded in darkness . Pyun mostly shoots everyone up close with long shot sequences mainly of the spooky corridors where the killer could pop out at the cops at any time . The film , though , doesn't have much of a plot other than the killer trapping our heroes in the prison . This horrifying future where plagued humans are separated from the healthy isn't given enough treatment . Pyun tended to shoot way too many facial shots barely giving the viewer any breathing room . He edits fast as well keeping the action moving at such breakneck speed . The camera rarely sits still . I kind of liked this B-movie for what it is . It doesn't have much of a leg to stand on , but with what little story Pyun ( it's his own fault , though , since it was him who wrote it . . it seems like he merely designed a chase'n'attack flick ) has he makes an effective little no-budget creeper .
The brainchild of military man Foster ( Jay Richardson ) regarding giant Komodo dragons against American enemies is given birth thanks to scientist , Professor Nathan Phipps ( William Langlois ) who has bio-engineered the supposedly extinct species into massive dinosaur sized monsters , quite carnivorous and hungry for food . Along with a few associates on an island compound near Hawaii , Phipps , his daughter Rebecca ( . . porn starlet Glori-Anne Gilbert , who isn't in this flick because of her acting ability , having a nice little topless bathing scene near water falls ) , and his assistant Dawn ( Gail Harris ) attempt to find a way at controlling the beasts without success . Meanwhile , a trio of casino thieves hitch a ride with paid alcoholic ex-military pilot Jack ( Tim Abell , an ex-porn actor who gets a chance to play hero in an action adventure ) who lands them on the island containing the Komodo dragon . Jack informs cranky muscular head heister Drake ( Paul Logan ) , his lover Tiffany ( Melissa Brasselle ) , and fellow thief Reece ( Cam Newlin ) that his chopper will need repairs , but they will soon find themselves joining forces with Phipps remaining crew against a giant Komodo dragon whose outer skin seems impenetrable from gunfire as everyone fires endless rounds at it without effect , just annoying the beast . Phipps ' compound is guarded by an electric fence but they are low on fuel and the generator is on the fritz . With a plague deriving from a slime secreted by the Komodo dragon causing those infected to slowly succumb to horrible skin rashes , sickness and erratic behavior , and that Komodo loose and hungry , the group will attempt to make it for Jack's chopper due to the fact that Foster won't send a rescue team to fly them off the island . But , it won't be easy as the Komodo always returns to feast on human meat when it can corner victims . When inspired , director Jim Wynorski makes other films than just porn spoofs which is the case with this creature feature . It's nothing that you haven't seen numerous times on Sci-fi channel ( . . for which Wynorski has been a major contributor with numerous killer monster flicks ) , but I found it an entertaining enough time-waster . You get to see the Komodo dragon gulp a few humans . For a low-budget horror adventure , the special effects of the monster are the standard you are use to seeing on the Sci-fi channel , not really that bad or mind-blowing , either . The film alternates between our folks on the island squaring off with their sharp-teeth beast and the military headquarters of Foster . Unlike many of Wynorski efforts , the film plays it straight , not layered with tongue-in-cheek humor . As usual , though , Wynorski has two actresses with large fake breasts . Gilbert is a Wynorski regular who has starred in several of his porn spoofs such as " Witches of Breastwick " & " The Breastford Wives " ( . . also starring as a fantasy girl in another Wynorski creature feature " The Thing Below " ) . She attempts to emote , but couldn't act if her life depended on it . Abell isn't so bad and could make a living in these type of genre flicks . He'd probably made it well in Italian rip-offs back in the late 70's / early 80's . Brasselle is a major babe who serves as a very ripped source of eye candy . Logan as the brooding heavy Drake ( . . who shoots the late Buck Flower in his opening scene because Reece mentioned his name while they were looting a casino ) might be familiar to those who have his seen him in a bevy of porn flicks . The film has a nice pace , with decent inserts of military footage , and fulfills all the requirements of a B-movie adventure flick . It's supposed to be escapist fare and is geared towards fans of creature feature flicks . Could be better . Could be worse . It is what it is .
Modestly entertaining spook-house chiller has a various group of motorists finding themselves crashed nearby a cemetery thanks to a thickening fog that has engulfed them . Near the unattended graveyard is a manor once home to a rumored-to-be witch who , along with her chauffeur , died in a car crash three decades earlier . Their spirits perhaps roam the grounds as a car , being driven by a man dressed in a chauffeur's uniform , almost runs over handsome motorcyclist Fred ( Andrés Resino ) who was attempting to flag the driver down . Fred is carrying a lovely hitchhiker , Laura ( Lisa Leonardi ) , as they found themselves crashing near the graveyard . Before their unfortunate accident , wealthy heiress , Elsa ( . . beautiful red-head Analía Gadé ) , recently recovering from a nervous breakdown due to the death of her father ( . . who died of a heart-attack while having sex with a much younger woman ) , was driving to a village to meet clients , Mr & Mrs Tremont ( Eduardo Fajardo & Yelena Samarina ) but , also runs off the road and into an embankment near the graveyard , encountering two sinister beings shrouded in darkness , one in a chauffeur's hat and boots , with a female figure slightly behind him . Incredibly frightened , Elsa runs into Fred and Laura . The trio find the manor , discovering that the Tremonts inside , having been in a wreck with another motorist , a gun-toting , sports-car driving , alcoholic , skirt-chasing , weak-hearted Mr . Porter ( Franco Fantasia ) who came on to Laura a little strong when he had initially picked her up on the side of the road . This group finds that the manor has an owner , the mysterious , enigmatic Martha Clinton ( Ida Galli ; Case of the Scorpion's Tale , Seven Notes in Black ) , who carries a striking resemblance to her aunt ( . . her portrait hangs above the fireplace in the living room of the manor ) . Martha dotes on the folklore behind her ancestor , the claims of vampirism and witchcraft and how these things drove locals from the location elsewhere . Over the night , Elsa will be targeted by the eerie chauffeur and Aunt Clinton , as she slowly is driven mad , but why ? Why would the spirits of Clinton and her chauffeur wish to drive Elsa crazy ? Meanwhile Fred and Laura snoop around , wishing to understand more about their surroundings and the chauffeur who almost run him over . Important sub-plot is introduced in the early going , regarding Elsa's very unhappy husband Ernest ( Alberto Dalbés ) , who is having an affair with another woman . Ernest was once wealthy as well , but spent his money on women and drink . Ernest mentions to his devoted lover how he'd like to split from Elsa , but her financial support is hard to give up . This isn't just thrown in the movie for filler , and could very well tie into the future events of the movie . The cast is decent and the dubbing is bearable . The film flirts with the supernatural , but the overall story isn't that overwhelming . The whole film lives and breathes familiarity . . . you have seen it all before , over and over . Perhaps the film offers surprises for viewers who are not accustomed to these type of old dark house mysteries where something's afoot , but I believe most will find this merely an adequate time-waster , nothing special or mind-blowing . Could've been a lot worse , but I have a pretty good feeling most will forget about this movie soon after it's over . Elsa's story is emphasized more than everyone else's .
" So let me get this straight , are you trying to tell me that all this is some sort of I Know What You Did 18 Summers Ago or something ? " Sister Ursula ( Cristina Piaget ) , murdered by her students and thrown in the pond near the Catholic school she taught them , returns in watery form to kill those who took her life 18 years later when the watering hole that was her place of rest is dried out by the Thermal Heating Spa planning to place their site there . Each now-adult student of Ursula's is killed in the form of the portrait of their patron saint counterparts hanging on the wall in the school which was shut down after the nun's disappearance . Eve ( Anita Briem ) finds her mom's throat being slit by the liquefied nun as Ursula flees out the window . It's Eve's new mission to find the other students who attended with her mom in the hopes of understanding what exactly has spurned the events taking place . She doesn't exactly understand what her mother and those students did one day many years ago and finds that each person who partook in Ursula's demise die in various gruesome ways , most right before her eyes . Eve receives assistance from a seminary student , Gabriel ( Manu Fullola ) with past emotional baggage of his own , when she travels to Barcelona with her high school chums looking for answers . They will make their way to the closed-down school as Eve meets with the two remaining students left alive as the nun plans to finish her quest . If one can look past the hokey premise , and terrible explanation of who the nun is by dufus Joel ( Alistair Freeland ) , then there's some good , inspired moments in this flick . The watery nun creation is obviously more than inspired by the Ring's Samara , but she is quite a creepy concoction Yuzna and company's Fantastic Factory have come up with . Lots of gruesome decapitations such as one woman's arms being sliced off by an elevator and one woman's head being sheared off by a sliding piece of broken window glass . Anita Briem is merely okay as the heroine , but most of the cast have a hard time combating the English language . The production values are surprisingly good for a flick such as this and it's stylishly photographed . It's a glossy bad movie , but one that at least leaves somewhat an impression . The ending , as silly as it's explained , is marred with an unsatisfying resolution .
There is a dark realm called Annwyn , based in old Welsh folklore , and Adèle ( Maria Bello ) has lost her daughter to it . It seems to the outside world that her daughter , Sarah ( Sophie Stuckey ) has drowned , but her body has not been recovered . Adèle believes that the idea behind retrieving your loved ones by leaping off a certain cliff into the watery depths below until you enter Annwyn is real when she researches the man ( called The Shepherd ) who created a church to worship this Welsh doctrine they pretty much made up through folktales . The Sheperd lost his daughter to illness at a young age and manipulates his congregation into a mass suicidal leap from the cliff . One who didn't sacrifice himself is Adèle's husband , James ' ( Sean Bean ) friend , sheepherder Dafydd ( Maurice Roëves ) . Through Dafydd , Adèle learns about the history of The Sheperd and Annwyn . Adding another layer in strangeness to the ordeal concerning Adèle and James is a young girl , Ebrill ( Abigail Stone ) who may've returned from the dark place within the water to find her a new father . . James ! She hears her daughter's cries of help and will take a leap into the dark to rescue her by using Ebrill as bait . Confusing , ambiguous horror tale doesn't really ever tell us how The Shepherd was able to create this dark world . What actually happens to Adèle at the end and why all the arduous , unorthodox happenings once she finds Annwyn . There's a lot left to our imagination , but it especially wishes to question Adèle's character as it pertains to her tumultuous relationship with her daughter . Sarah wishes to live with her father and we see that Ebrill has bonded with James as well . As Adèle is within Annwyn , we see what may've occurred on one terrible day between mother and daughter and how their relationship may've been scarred for good . Perhaps what ultimately happens to Adèle is that she is having to answer through a morbid sort of punishment for neglecting her daughter . Lots of room for conjecture here .
Mediocre sci-fi thriller about a renegade android , Eve VIII ( Renée Soutendijk ) who malfunctions when she is shot by a bank robber while on a mission . Her creator , Dr . Eve Simmons ( also Renée Soutendijk ) designed the female android with the same facial characteristics , while also transferring memories , thoughts , and feelings from herself . Those memories reoccur in Eve VIII's mind and she reacts violently . She is very dangerous because , she is a nuclear threat as well . Equipped with a machine gun , this android has to be stopped because she is also very powerful with the ability to toss men across rooms and in the air with ease . The secret government group funding the Eve project enlist the aide of Colonel Jim McQuade ( Gregory Hines ) with expertise in anti-terrorism , to somehow stop the malfunctioning killer android before truly dire consequences erupt . Many innocent bystanders , and a few profane undesirables , will cross Eve VIII's path and suffer the consequences . The film shows how Dr . Eve must assist McQuade in his efforts to find and kill her creation ( a shot through the eyes is the way to down it ) . The android targets Eve's father ( for the murder of her mother which returns in a memory ) and later , in the film's harrowing climax in the New York subway , her son . The film owes a hell of a lot to the really good leads who work well off each other . I've always felt Hines had a strong presence on-screen , very easy to like and charismatic . He takes what could've easily been a dull role and injects life into it . I like his character because he's sympathetic to Eve's cause , yet looks at the dire , difficult situation they find themselves with a levelheadedness . Renée Soutendijk , I thought , was very impressive in this film . . having to portray two different characters while making both of them different than the other is an outstanding accomplishment . I give praise for her work in such a rather unextraordinary sci-fi actioner . Pretty much by-the-numbers , but the leads keep it interesting . Kevin McCarthy has a cameo as Eve's now old-aged father .
Well , I finally watched it and can easily say that some decisions made really ticked me off . They just have to go and spoil the entire film ( . . the " Dark City " syndrome if you will ) by announcing not only in the narration but the opening scene displaying the " morning after " . Talk about shooting yourself in the foot . This was the same problem I had with Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE THE BEGINNING . . If you already know the victimized characters ' fates how can you really get into a film ? I wasn't drawn in because I knew it couldn't possibly go well for the couple thanks to the opening minutes summoning up their fates . And , as usual the female victim twists her ankle , makes so much racket stumbling into things people miles down the road could hear her , and she's constantly screaming . She might as well stood out in the yard with a GIANT bullseye and said " hit me with your best shot " . I will say that I thought that the filmmakers took pointers from Dean Cundy on how to lens their masked villains . . because the whole time they'd show up , Michael Myers came to mind immediately . This I liked really well , although I think the murderess in INSIDE was even better a menace , appearing from the shadows . Speaking of INSIDE , I immediately thought of a certain accidental murder that occurred in that movie and saw the surprise death in THE STRANGERS coming before it even happened . Horror has come full circle really . Used to filmmakers preyed on your fears in regards to being caught in an unfamiliar territory where no one could save you ( . . whether it be in the shower of the Bates Motel , out in the water as the Great White draws ever so close , in the farmhouse of a maniac wearing a mask made of human skin , wielding a chainsaw , in the space ship Nostromo where the alien hunts for victims or in the dark torture rooms of a faraway third-world country ) , but now there's really no escape because even in the comforts of your own home ( . . or a close relative's summer home ) the predators are around somewhere to cause terror to victims . The movie goes out of it's way to make the couple , Tyler and Speedman , stumble , trip and fall all over themselves as the kid killers , under creepy masks , stalk them quietly and methodically . It calls Columbine back to your attention and as of late , those kids haven't quite killing . THE STRANGERS , in that regard ( . . although , I'm one of those who considers ILS ( THEM ) a better candidate ) taps into something truly vital , that impacts . Too bad , the filmmakers clue us into how the whole situation will end right at the start .
Two giant crab monsters , grown from poisonous radiation thanks to the H bomb ( good ole reliable radiation sure provided many a screenplay with the perfect excuse to enlarge regular animal and fish life into killing monsters ) , terrorize a Navy science research team sent to an island to investigate the disappearance of another science team who stopped communication with their base . It seems that the crab monsters are equipped with the ability to absorb the knowledge of the heads they eat from their various victims since the brains essentially carry electrical impulses . The team will race against time to find out a way to try and outlast the two monsters hoping to study them while staying alive as the island is being capsized , by detonated dynamite , around them . The crabs can telepathically communicate through metal ( ! ) to the crew through the voices of those they behead and eat . This telepathy , at first , is used to lure victims to them , and then as a device to threaten . It seems that bullet-fire and grenades do little to stop the giant crabs , but attacking their brains ( where their ultimate power stems from ) or the use of positive electrical energy are the perhaps the crew's only defense against them . Charles B Griffith's screenplay uses science to explain the shenanigans of the crabs and their preposterous powers thanks to radiation , but this flick is ultimately for fans of creature features . The monstrous crabs are , at the very least , more effective than that hilarious patch-worked beast in Corman's other sea-creature flick , " Creature from the Haunted Sea . " Russell Johnson , the Professor of " Gilligan's Island " fame has the part of handyman Hank Chapman .
As the film opens we see right at the offset that the marriage between " shaky-hands " George ( Jim Hutton ; a problems that resulted from his war experience in Korea ) and Isabel ( a smoking Jane Fonda at the early part of her career ) is rocky . But , the home they are headed for in Florida holds a marriage coming apart at the seams . Ralph ( Anthony Franciosa ) and Dorothea ( Lois Nettleton ) are having problems of their own . Ralph has had enough of his boss , and Dorothea's father , and tells him his thoughts about the crusty old man and where he can take this job . Other things underneath the surface , though , lead Dorothea to leaving Ralph such as his quitting his job , the way he wishes for his son be treated like a male than a sissy ( I felt this was an intentional Tennesse Williams subtle plot point about parental homophobia ) . . his son is given girlie toys instead of a football or other more manly presents . We watch as these four characters face personal demons in a night of not only bitter feuding , discussion , and , most importantly , reflection . The main question is can both marriages survive ? Like a lot of films based on plays , this shows characters searching their souls and trying to become honest with themselves and the faults that guide them into unusual terrain . We watch as they try and sort out their emotions by talking . We see an age-old ordeal in the Ralph and Dorothea marriage . . the in-laws butting in and causing further conflict . That alone casts a foreboding shadow Ralph wishes to escape . Also , the " ugly duckling " aspect regarding how Dorothea feels about herself is also a little ordeal that plays out in the film as she questions whether Ralph wants to remain in a " love-less " marriage . George is a fragile man who met his wife Isabel in a mental hospital where doctors tried to find the reason for the consistent plague of shakes that take over his hands ( it would probably acute to panic attacks that many suffer today ) . He talks a big talk , even tries to play out his aggressiveness , but he's weak and really does need Isabel even though he pretends to acts all macho . Isabel has such a wonderful personality , but her insistence to be heard and appreciated , at times , weighs a bit on George . So we see that each person has to come to terms with each other's faults and problems . This film has a tendency to over-exaggerate it's message ( . . and is a bit syrupy at times ) and lays on the melodrama a bit thick . It still has a more adult theme to it and touches on some very important things every marriage faces . It's always interesting seeing Fonda in these early roles before she becomes engulfed in the hippie lifestyle of the on-coming Vietnam war .
Pagan Professor Morlant ( Boris Karloff , absent for far too long ) wishes for a rare jewel , sold to him by Arab " shiek " Aga Ben Dragore ( Harold Huth ) who stole it from an Egyptian crypt , to be buried in his tomb when he passes . Morlant is dying and has his aide , Laing ( Ernest Thesiger , up to his usual scene-stealing ways ) bandage the jewel in his hand . Unfortunately for Morlant , Laing steals the jewel in a moment of weakness and before long others seek after it such as Dragore , sneaky no-good accountant Broughton ( Cedric Hardwicke ) , and even " padre " Nigel Hartley ( Ralph Richardson ) . Betty Harlon ( Dorothy Hyston ) and Ralph Morlant ( Anthony Bushell ) are cousins from bickering families related to Professor Morlant who stood to benefit from anything left by him after his death . What no one counted on was Professor Morlant's " rising from the grave " in search of the stolen jewel . . he plans to bow at the altar of his pagan statue hoping for eternal life with the jewel clasped in his hand . While being deliciously atmospheric with foggy nights and creepy Morlant estate as the setting , this film lumbers along at too slow a pace . Kathleen Harrison is the comic relief as Kaney , Betty's friend who tags along , falling for Dragore and getting into possible peril when the jewel winds up in her hands out of all people . The leads , Hyson and Bushell aren't charismatic or charming enough , but pros Karloff ( . . the precious few minutes we have him ) , Hardwicke , Thesiger , & especially Richardson give this some merit . Not really that bad , but could've been so much better .
A professor , Stefano ( Lino Capolicchio ) , returns home to visit his brother Don Paolo ( Craig Hill ) , a parish priest , and finds that someone is bumping off specific citizens in gruesome ways . We get a séance reading with the spiritualist after earlier seeing her receiving bribe money in an envelope in the café where the brothers feast and chat about old times . The spiritualist is strangled by someone in black leather gloves and raincoat as a storm rages outside with Paolo hearing her death scream from his room above . He doesn't see the person responsible only later receiving threatening fragmented riddled letters informing him to remain silent or else . Stefano will pursue the identity of the killer , out of devotion to his brother . Stefano meets an art decorator , Sandra ( Stefania Casini ) , on his train to home , with a blossoming relationship resulting as the murders to several who partook in the very séance held by the spiritualist before she was killed , continue to increase . Sandra's ill mother , once a very talented artist , has a specific painting which might yield a clue to the overall mystery that opens the film in slow motion . . an innocent girl was strangled by someone ( . . the killer , of course , off camera ) and as she falls to the ground , ripping pages from a book tossed away . Also , the way the letter " t " is printed on the threatening letters to Paolo , an image that haunts Stefano , an abortionist with a mentally ill son , and the aforementioned painting someone is very interested in requiring all play a hand in who is committing the murders . Those who sought after by the killer include a wealthy aristocratic homosexual Count who likes to fondle boys , an atheist doctor often clashing with the priest , Sandra's own artist mother , and quite possibly the abortionist and Paolo himself . Stylish giallo from director Antonio Bido perhaps is a bit slow in places , but is convoluted enough with a pretty good cast and sordid characters which should satisfy the giallo thriller crowd . I thought Craig Hill as the troubled priest was very good , quite expressive as his face displays tormenting thoughts and paranoia . This giallo does have a sex scene between Stefano and Sandra which should also satisfy the ones expecting it in their gialli . Not as violent as other thrillers of it's ilk , and the film takes it's time telling the story . Very story-driven with the mystery unveiling bit by bit . Those who are familiar with this genre might find a twist ( . . used in films such as " Don't Torture a Duckling " & " Seven Blood-Stained Orchids " ) rather derivative , but I think this giallo works well enough . Some beautiful , effective uses of the island the director shot the film representing his own form of Vienna . My favorite set-piece would be the following point-of-view shot as someone is walking behind Sandra through alleys of Vienna and across corners as she makes her way to home .
A small town community is rocked by a rash of killings thanks in part to a werewolf , and Sheriff Joe Haller ( Terry O'Quinn ) has no clues as to who the predator is . With a curfew effecting the town and frightened , angry citizens wanting the killer apprehended , it'll be up to brother and sister Marty & Jane Coslaw ( Corey Haim & Megan Follows ) , along with their dis-believing alcoholic Uncle Red ( Gary Busey ) to stop the one committing the violence . Bothered with having a responsibility for helping take care of crippled brother Marty , Jane must somehow trust him when he claims that he shot the werewolf in the eye with a bottle-rocket one night while lighting them in a nearby park . When his identity is discovered by Jane , they will have to convince Uncle Red to assist them or their very lives may be in jeopardy . You know looking at " Silver Bullet " now , I feel it's a tale of two halves . A rock solid opening up until the fog-misted werewolf slaughter of gathered citizens , joining a mob out to find the beast , and the stunning show-stopping highlight , a dream sequence of the priest whose congregation turn into werewolves . Then the film suddenly changes . The one plagued with lycanthropy , once before was a good man , troubled with the beast , but at a certain point turns into a grubby-faced psycho attempting to murder Marty with his car , even threatening the wheel-chair bound kid inside a crippling bridge . When the sheriff is told Marty's story about being threatened by this person , he goes to the person's abode without a deputy backing him up . And , it seems that the town up and forgets about the terror plaguing their community murdering their citizens after the incident in the foggy park where the werewolf picked off several out to kill it . When Stephen King's screenplay shifts completely towards Marty & Jane's battle of wills with the man troubled with lycanthropy , the folks from the first half slide out of the picture . But , the first half effectively , I felt , displays a town riddled with paranoia and horror , especially when a child , a friend of Marty's , is brutally murdered . There's an effective attack on a pregnant woman on the verge of suicide . Another effective sequence is where the werewolf attacks a nasty repugnant citizen with a foul demeanor and profane mouth in his greenhouse . The last half does show two werewolf effective transformations . . one where the killer turns after his identity is discovered by the sheriff , and at the end from the beast back into a man . Less effective , I felt , were the decapitated heads which never looked very real . I think the true success of this beloved werewolf flick is the undeniable chemistry between Busey and Haim . Their bond really helps bring the characters to life , as does the troubled brother-sister relationship . . these elements are indeed important in fleshing the leads out into real characters , building up to a rather underwhelming conclusion when the werewolf comes to claim their lives . One touch I had never noticed before that really impressed me was the last time Marty would see his friend Brady alive , asking him if he was coming . . the camera closes in on Haim's face as he stares as if knowing that this would perhaps be the last time he'd see his pal alive ( . . I felt it worked as an ominous omen the director was foretelling to us , that the werewolf would attack anyone in it's proximity ) .
Inspector Alex Glass ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) is on the trail of a serial killer who leaves Vaseline on the faces of his victims , dumping their bodies in secluded areas . We see in the opening of the film that Glass accidentally shoots a girl as an attempted arrest escalated into a shoot-out with a drug dealer who gets away . Glass also is burdened by an ex-wife who will not let him see or communicate with his daughter . The girl is a cripple and Glass is afraid of confronting her , leaving the little girl gifts as she tries to recuperate from her injuries . Meanwhile , Glass deals with renovations to his dilapidated Berlin precinct , a new associate / partner , Shirley May ( Julia Kent ) who he pesters for the hell of it , and a nasty drug dealer named Miskowski ( an effective Frank Stallone , in a criminally underwritten role ) who is the leading suspect in the murder of a murdered girl who seemingly died of an overdose . Glass has a friend and confident , lawyer Michael Karstens ( Michael York . . not his finest hour , to be honest ) whose own sister was found dead , and pregnant in a meat plant freezer . When Karstens ' own daughter is found dead the same way as the other victim ( . . also a ballet friend of hers ) , Glass will certainly have to fend off his alcoholism and sadness to stop the killing . Another plot development has Glass getting involved with a high-price call girl named Lisa ( Morgan Fairchild , fatally miscast and , in my opinion , hurts the film ) who has a relationship with drug dealing Mikowski , who is black mailing an important public official which reveals the answers to the film's ultimate mystery as to who is committing the murders . I will admit that this is troublesomely convoluted , as mysteries often are , despite the fact that viewers who are paying attention will recognize who the killer is relatively early . But , Stahl's performance , in my opinion , is a must-see . He adds little touches and quirks to his character ( . . such as a funny little twitch with his nose , and little bit with a horn mouthpiece when bored during a stake-out of a person he's tailing ) and is the kind of actor who adds dimension to a his detective which makes him interesting and believable . Stahl could've phoned it in , but he really makes the most of this part . Despite his flaws , Stahl is incredibly likable and vulnerable . When he's betrayed by someone in the plot , and is duped during the investigation , Stahl handles this perfectly . He's not a carciature whose detective knows every move of his quarry and has all the aces up his sleeve . . I like this myself and was happy that he doesn't make all the right decisions . Yet , Stahl's character doesn't remain in a sulking state , and he isn't some cranky , angry sort always barking at people as is typical by boozing , down-on-their-luck detectives always seem in these type of films . I also thought the film was evocatively photographed in a moody neo-noir style capturing an effective Berlin where teenage prostitution , buildings in ruin , drug-abuse & sordid types all bathe the city streets where our Inspector works . Sometimes the score can be a liability , especially when the music hammers in certain scenes , but there's some jazz that I think added a nice little touch to the proceedings . I didn't care for the ending . . a bit strange where the climax has the killer cornered in a meat plant where Stahl's detective sets up a dangerous scenario which could've been handled with a bit more finesse and an all too quaint close where Glass can appropriately exorcise that massive demon that's been plaguing him . But , worst of all , is having us buy into the relationship between Glass and Lisa . To be honest , Glass has better chemistry with his partner , Shirley . . this would've been a more ideal pairing and they have a wonderful scene where they're caught in an uncompromising position thanks to a clumsy misstep when tailing Lisa hoping to catch up with Miskowski .
A group of kids decide to have a party in old Hall manor on Halloween which was the location of a massacre by the proprietor many years previous . They decide to turn it up a notch for the sake of holiday spirit and have a séance using a mirror which could hold everyone's reflection . What they don't know is that their little séance DOES unleash a demonic force of some kind that enters through the mouth of slutty Suzanne ( Linnea Quigley who is scorching ) who then spreads it to goth pal Angela ( Amelia Kinkade who has a show-stopping " dance of the damned " sequence in the film ) . Soon the slaughter begins with various characters running for their lives through this frigid , ancient , decrepit manor trying to flee those taken over by demons . Rodger ( Alvin Alexis ) and Helen ( Allison Barron ) ultimately become the prey . Helen is the stereotypical pure and innocent virgin . In the vein of films like CHOPPING MALL , acting and dialogue this bad ( . . over-expressed , heightened emoting with extra emphasis on delivering corny dialogue loudly ) had to be intentional and encouraged . You don't even know the meaning of obnoxious until you've seen Hal Havins ' very annoying , boisterous character Stooge . I thought it was very reminiscent of THE EVIL DEAD , especially the creepy demonic make-up work and how the camera travels ( the camera represents the demonic force which enters Quigley much the same way as that force which attacks Bruce Campbell at the end of THE EVIL DEAD ) through doors and down halls . The manor , full of cobwebs , dust & darkness with hints of dense light , makes up quite an effectively eerie place and there's enough gruesome bits to provide the thirst of starving gore-hounds . The film's saving grace is that it never takes itself seriously .
Bo Hopkins stars as a small town sheriff , Dan Burke , trying to uncover the one responsible for a series of murders towards young men surrounding fifteen year old Melissa Morgan ( Aleisa Shirley ) whose " sweet sixteen " is approaching . A number of suspects emerge including two Native Americans , elderly Greyfeather ( Henry Wilcoxon ) and his grandson , Jason Longshadow ( Don Shanks ) , but they could be smokescreens of another , whose long buried past has awakened and those who attempt to get involved with Melissa pay the price . Susan Strasberg ( . . still quite beautiful at this time ) is Melissa's mother , Joanne , and screen veteran Patrick Macnee is her father , archaeologist Dr . John Morgan , excavating old Indian grounds for artifacts . Don Stroud is a rowdy racist cowboy , Billy Franklin , often hanging around with goofy hoodlum , Jimmy ( Logan Clarke ) teasing and abusing Greyfeather when he enters their juke joint for a beer . Billy and Longshadow are mortal enemies and a destined showdown is imminent . Dana Kimmell is Dan's inquisitive daughter Marci and Steve Antin is his son Hank , whose attraction to Melissa puts him in potential danger . The horror escalates at Melissa's sweet sixteen birthday party , put together as a way for the town to meet the Morgan family . . the killer will be revealed and Billy , along with Jimmy ( . . his shadow , pretty much ) will attempt to have a little fun with Melissa when she goes skinny dipping with Hank . The film carves a psychological path as Dan soon discovers the history of a certain character whose traumatic past could have developed a disturbed personality willing to kill those who pose a fictional danger to Melissa who represents someone else symbolically . The director , Jim Sotos , mentions that they were working from an unfinished script , during an interview with Hopkins admitting to ab-libbing some lines ( . . and a funny story mentions how Macnee was confused with the twist regarding why the killer was committing such grisly knife murders ) . Aleisa Shirley , a very pretty girl , has some nude shower sequences that left me rather disoriented . . as a fifteen year old character , I didn't know whether to be mortified as the camera embraced her naked flesh , or jovial because it's obvious she was a much older woman than the Melissa she was portraying . Sharon Farrell has a nice supporting role as Kathy Hopkins , a forensics expert carrying a torch for widower Dan , who proposes marriage to him all the time . A great asset to the movie was the camaraderie between Hopkins and his fictional family , Kimmell and Antin . . their chemistry together is quite fundamental to the overall success of this rural slasher . They will become embroiled within the developing situation just as much as their father investigating the case , just in a different way . Fans of Macnee will be rather disappointed in his rather lackluster role here . . it's nice to see him , but not much is demanded from him since the character isn't too strongly involved within the major plot . Strasberg , however , has an interesting development since it's revealed that she was born in the town setting of this movie . . and has friction with Michael Pataki's citizen , George Martin , an obvious history between these two is apparent . The violence isn't too gruesome , with carefully edited attacks showing the knife stabbing torsos up close . . not that extreme for dye-in-the-wool slasher fans used to gratuitous gore . Hopkins is as appealing and laid back as ever , a dominating presence of the plot , his authority convincing in a small town atmosphere , dealing with confrontational cases appropriately and realistically . I particularly liked how his sheriff handles his kids who respect their father , even if they disobey him sometimes . . unlike today's children who resist parental guidance , Dan's children know their place and don't cross him . Kimmell , who would go on to star as the lead final girl in Friday THE 13TH III , is adorable , always studiously involved in dad Dan's cases .
" I'm chronicling the real America , not the ideal America . . the warts , the coarse black hairs , the dark underbelly of a nation trying to fool itself that it has none . . . . There is no light without darkness , no life without death , no peace without war , no God without Satan . . . . I'm a boatman on the River Styx in Black Asphalt . . a traveler on Route 666 . " Introducing himself to recent , wedding-dress clad bride , Olivia ( Missy Crider ) is Aaron Quicksilver ( Christopher Lloyd , dressed as if he walked off the set of THE ADDAMS FAMILY ) a storyteller of the absurd and macabre and does he have quite the tale for her . Olivia is awaiting her husband off to find assistance due to their car having a flat tire . In the story Quicksilver tells her is Bill Hogan ( Raphael Sbarge , also portraying Olivia's husband Kerry off to get some help ) a bar-code label salesman who runs into a psycho hitchhiker on his way home through a bad dust storm that doesn't let up . Luckily , Bill has aide when a vehicle crash , during the hitcher's threats to kill him , causes his van to run off the road and upside down into a gully . Unable to unlock his seat , it seems as if Bill is sure bait for the killer , but is assisted by a steel toy he received by an old man running a grocery store nearby . That steel toy is chattery teeth with legs ! This tale is based on a Stephen King story called " Chattery Teeth . " In the wraparound , Olivia finds that this story hits closer to home than she could possibly ever realize . Matt Frewer , a Mick Garris vet , is Charlie , a pickpocket who happens across a gallery of oddities at a carnival , operated by . . . Aaron Quicksilver . Charlie spots a wax hand which serves as a candle for Quicksilver on display . Quicksilver has a tale for Charlie and it consists of a plastic surgeon , Dr . Charles George whose hands are rebelling against him ! We see them actually talking to each other in conversation , the hands I mean ( I'm not joking , we hear them speaking words as certain fingers act as lips ! ) , planning to escape the tyranny of the body seeking freedom ! Poor Charles George can not understand why his hands would wish to kill his beloved wife or sever ties with him . The rest of the tale consists of one hand , severing itself from Charles ' arm , causing turmoil amongst a hospital staff telling the hands of everyone to revolt ! Charles must make an ultimate decision . . one remaining attached hand seems to be a " messiah " for the other hands and will have to die with his suicide the possible only viable option left to make . And , in the wraparound , pickpocket Charlie might not have the chance to use his hands for criminal activity any longer . Based on Clive Barker's story , " The Body Politic . " Now , both stories are insane dealing with bizarre tales of horror . The outrageous nature of both tales might work for those willing to suspend disbelief . The beautiful , fluid camera-work , often always an asset in even director Garris ' worst films , is on display here . The hands running free in a hospital causing havoc has to be seen to be believed . If one has seen the ADDAMS FAMILY feature films , they have an inclination of what I'm talking about . Seeing a toy with chattery teeth and legs leaping at the throat of an evil hitchhiker ( Silas Weir Mitchell ) isn't exactly something I remember seeing before so that might be novelty for those interested in the silly and weird . This anthology can be a lot of fun for undemanding viewers expecting true terror because these tales seem more geared towards chuckles than horrifying it's audience . If you enjoy Christopher Lloyd , you might enjoy his creepy storyteller , whose cracking , demented smile is memorable as those who hear his stories are effected by them .
Goofy title aside , this is essentially another Japanese gang war carried out through racial turmoil orchestrated by Baron who targets " half-breeds " due to a past traumatic experience involving his sister's rape at the hands of black attackers . Meiko Kaji , her deep , penetrating eyes peering from between her long black hair , wearing a big-ass black hat which looks to weigh a ton , is Mako , representing a female group ( . . I've read them referenced as " The Alley-cats " ) who seem sexually aligned with a hostile clan of hellraisers known as The Eagles , directed by their sadistic brooding leader Baron ( Tatsuya Fuji , under dark shades , wearing colorful shirts and white pants ) and his obedient lieutenant Susumu ( Jiro Okazaki ) . A handsome foreigner enters the city looking for his sister , a " half-breed " , Kazuma ( Rikiya Yasuoka ) , finding much trouble with Baron who wants him out of their turf . Kazuma works as a mechanic and strongly desires to find his sister no matter the cost to his well being , and Baron is determined , & hell-bent on ridding his city of all those who carry Negro characteristics . Mako , attached to Baron , falls in love with Kazuma while helping him find the sister he's searching for . When she's actually a member of Mako's own sisterhood , rejecting Kazuma , he takes the resentment especially hard . When she is gang-raped by Baron's hoods , Kazuma will have it out with him once and for all in a climactic shoot-out . Mako must endure a tragic conclusion , right up close-and-personal as Baron and Kazuma square off in a duel , western style . The film features the period psychedelic bubble gum pop music club scene of the 70's , the fashion styles , drug use , criminal activity and overall rebellious youthful atmosphere of Japan , an obvious cinematic concoction designed to appeal to the target demographic attracted to these themes at that time . STRAY CAT ROCK : SEX HUNTER started out seeming rather aimless , an inside look into the culture of defiant youth , the film startled me when the very topical theme of racism is injected into the story . Baron , upon first appearance , seems little more than the head of a group of males without an identity . . they merely exist to smoke dope , lounge around clubs , and stir up some trouble with anyone who dares an attempt to date their women . When one of Mako's girls , Maki , leaves Susumu for a half-breed named Ichiro , Baron hearkens back to that painful childhood memory that has left an indelible scar , resulting in a systematic hunt for those for whom he looks at as " symbols " of those that raped his sister . Scenes that emerge include Baron's setting up Mako's girls for a rape party , his constant heinous attacks on Kazumi , the Molotov cocktail revenge which sets a hotel room ablaze , and a very bizarre shooting resulting in a brother killing his sister for some unexplainable reason . Early on you even had Mako in hand-to-hand combat with one of her own girls due to a roundabout challenge . The Eagles drive around the city in army jeeps , all ( . . or most ) wearing dark shades , and certainly reveling in their violent actions towards innocents . Baron allows his boys to play , often laughing hysterically ; you come to realize that Baron is a moody psychotic , often stewing quietly until something pushes him over the edge . Kaji always holds my attention and Fuji commands the screen as her one-time-lover and eventual adversary . Yasuharu Hasebe , thanks to the typically marvelous production values of Nikkatsu studio , brings a polished look to compliment his skills at maintaining a decent pace ( . . which can lag due to long drawn out camera set ups capturing the intensity or sadness of faces ) . I think the film's most interesting feature is how Hasebe captures that particular time in Japan , and the way he lenses characters . The unpredictability might just be another asset STRAY CAT ROCK : SEX HUNTER has in it's favor . Attractive cast with interesting faces ; the story could be polarizing to some . Rather depressing ending .
George Zucco sinks his teeth into dual roles as good and evil twins , one a friendly town physician , Dr . Lloyd Clayton , and the other , occultist brother Elwyn who had discovered the power of vampirism while away in another country ( . . also known as a devil worshiper who studied and dabbled in sorcery ) . Accused of murdering his brother , by Elwyn's loyal assistant , Zolarr ( Dwight Frye , yet playing another hunchbacked fiend ) , Lloyd is soon confronted by him after attacking a female victim within the town . Claiming revenge for being pushed off a cliff , Elwyn promises to ruin Lloyd's life , and starts by draining his beloved daughter , Gayle ( Mary Carlisle ) of her blood . Gayle , slowly dying due to anemia , Lloyd starts debating his sanity , and soon accepts , despite common logic dictating otherwise , that Elwyn is in fact a vampire , and must convince his daughter's fiancé , David ( Nedrick Young ) as well . As more people are killed ( . . such as local snoop , Kate ( Fern Emmett ) , considered the superstitious town loony , who stumbles onto Elwyn's hiding place and is executed by Zolarr ) , the town hicks become restless and scared , forming a mob that will accuse Lloyd of committing the deeds after overhearing David's threats towards him to the sheriff ( Hal Price ) , considering him the one responsible for Gayle's weakening and deteriorating state . But , when David himself sees Elwyn , returning to antagonize his brother Lloyd , they set out a plan to stop him and Zolarr of their conniving evil schemes to endanger innocents . Lloyd faces insurmountable odds as the town mob set out to find him while he searches for Elwyn's lair , also confronting Zolarr in a climactic battle of good vs . evil . Zucco and Frye are the definite draws for this little horror tale which operates using the traditional vampire themes . It was certainly neat seeing Zucco getting a chance to portray not only the compassionate , caring doctor who faces daunting challenges as nearly everyone sides against him , but also the vile , malevolent vampire brother who uses unbelief as a weapon . Frye doesn't have to stretch since he has portrayed this same kind of character numerous times , but it's always fun watching him playing these devious , slimy , animated villains who work valiantly for their masters . Young and Carlisle are colorless , but the roles of loving couple caught in the middle of a war between the forces of good and evil have never demanded much for the actor and actress who portrayed them . There's nothing that original in this film ( . . and it is rather predictable ) , but it's rare that you get to see Zucco as a vampire and hero , so that gives DEAD MEN WALK an allure . Typical of the vampire genre , Lloyd can only awaken at night , fears the crucifix , and is susceptible to death by fire . . also , his loyal servant , Zolarr , must watch over his casket during the day , proving that despite his supernatural powers , he's vulnerable . Interesting enough , Elwyn's main weakness is returning to torment Lloyd .
America , now a desolate wasteland from nuclear warfare that has left the remaining survivors of mankind infertile , yields two warring factions both seeking the answer for the plight of a dying race . The villains of this film are the Eurac corporation , experimenting on test subjects they pluck from the city of New York , hoping to find the answer to birthing a new nation on their own corrupt terms . Most of the Euracs dress like imitation Star Wars Storm Troopers , perhaps representing a Communist regime , setting up outposts and booby traps towards anyone getting in or out of New York . A desert racer , Parsifal ( Michael Sopkiw , playing a more sympathetic version of Snake Plisskin , except donning a bandanna instead of an eye-patch ) , is taken to a top secret outpost in Alaska against his will and asked by the hidden President of the United States to seek out a fertile female housed somewhere within the ruins of a ravaged New York City , buried under rubble and filth . Parsifal once worked under his command in the Pan American Federation , and now the President hopes to start a new race on another world , not corrupted with radiation or war , Alpha Centuri , and promises Parsifal a seat on the ship heading off of Earth if he fulfills the mission by finding the young woman and getting her to them . Along with two assigned operatives to accompany him , a secret cyborg with a rag covering his robotic eye ( . . quite a wiz when using his stringed set of steel balls often knocking his foes out ) and a hook-handed " human map " ( . . who lost his family to the evil Euracs and knows New York City better than just about anyone ) , Parsifal will attempt to infiltrate New York City , preferably the damaged Manhattan , to find the fertile woman . In his way are sewer crazies ( whose head is a nutty Asian played by Hal Yamanouchi ) who hunt rats as a food source , the prowling Eurac soldiers on horseback , and ape-men lead by the gargantuan Big Ape ( George Eastman ) . Luckily Parcifal will find an ally in a dwarf named Shorty ( Louis Ecclesia ) who knows the location of the fertile woman , but also runs into trouble with the bald Eurac Commandant ( Serge Feuillard ) and his lieutenant Ania ( Anna Kanakis ) . Parcifal also finds a love-interest in Giara ( Valentine Monnier ) , thought , at first , to be the fertile woman sought found wandering with the sewer , rat hunting pack . Plucking ideas from multiple sci-actioners , this post-apocalyptic tale , from director Sergio Martino ( . . far removed from his 70's giallo heyday ) moves along at a quickened pace , set to a cool rhythmic beat . Models are used for large shots of New York City and space ships . The outfits used to clothe the characters are mismatched scraps of this and that providing them with a hobo look ( . . or what I like to call , " junk-garb " ) while the Eurac officers often wear matching suits representing a type of totalitarian order dictating the kind of police state they're hoping to employ to the destroyed world ( . . which is perhaps why their purpose for gaining control over the fertile woman is essential ) . The heroes embark on their mission through flooded sewers , often containing red-eyed flesh-eating rats , bus-graveyards , and underground dwelling places for those with radiation burns , trying to hide from the Euracs . Good fun for non-discriminating viewers who accept the film's relatively low budget , burdened with rather cheap special effects , where the filmmakers try to bring to life an ambitious equivalent to films like " Escape from New York " and " Mad Max " . There's no doubt where " 2019 " gets it's inspirations from . . some scenes are directly aping near-exact moments from the aforementioned ESCAPE ( . . such as when Parsifal is stabbed in the leg , in practically the same spot as Snake Plisskin , or how both heroes face off with their foes , carrying a motley group of misfits ) . . but Martino knows how to add zing and zang to action scenes . The camera moves with the characters really well , taking off like a galloping horse during chases and hand-to-hand combats between our heroes and the Euracian forces . " Animal lovers " might take offense to the ways the sewer crazies hunt their rats . Only real problem I had was an abandoned plot resolution regarding Ania , who had taken control of the Euracian forces , yet you never see her again once she claims to take matters into her own hands regarding Parsifal .
Freddy becomes more of a host into the nightmares of the characters instead of a major player in them in this second episode . Bryan ( John Cameron Mitchell , the director of SHORTBUS & HEDWIG ) is a young man stuck at a hamburger joint whose father is the owner . He wishes to leave Springwood for a college despite his father's request towards him taking over the family business eventually . He wants to make something of his life , however , and the whole idea of being stuck in the environs of a hamburger joint forever seem horrifying . This comes into play when he is supposedly shot by a psychotic , ominous motorcyclist in the forehead . He has nightmarish visions dealing with his parents who seem to behave anything but rational . He also continues to bleed from his forehead despite no signs of a wound . He still sees the shooter from time - to-time and Karen ( Lar Park-Lincoln ) even shows up now and then seemingly his only ally . But , is he destined to remain in the atmosphere of the grease-spoon or can he escape the never ending hell of the confines of Springwood ? The other victim of the motorcycle sicko is Karen , Brian's girlfriend , coming to meet up with him . She is taken to a hospital where the conditions and staff are anything but normal . This hospital is in many ways disorienting as the nightmares plaguing Brian and it seems Karen can not escape . Karen , like Brian , continues to see the killer while also experiencing bizarre treatment from the doctors and nurses attending to her . Okay combination of stories tries to be morbidly compelling and quirky . I thought the second story featuring Lincoln ( better known to horror fans of the Friday THE 13TH series as the telekinetic arch-nemesis of Jason Voorhies in the seventh film , THE NEW BLOOD ) in the hospital was the more entertaining because of the unusual methods of the staff working on her . They tend to do disturbing things while she lays helpless in horror . Mitchell being in this might be an interesting curio for fans of his highly popular HEDWIG AND THE ANGRY INCH . His is the one geared more towards comedy with how weird his parents behave and the play on his never escaping the dead-in job of flipping burgers . Since the budget is low , the director had to be creative with the effects he had , but Tom McLoughlin ( the man who helmed Friday THE 13TH : JASON LIVES ) aims more for bizarre imagery and black humor .
Sexually liberated Aurora ( Daniela Virgilio ) has tired of former boyfriend , Rino ( Daniele Grassetti ) , but he's in love with her and is able to coerce her into sex in his car out of the city . Three hooligans , Cesare ( David Pietroni ) , Ginger ( Geremia Longobardo ) , and Diego ( Cristiano Callegaro ) , on a trip , interrupt their conversation on continuing the bumpy relationship by beating Rino to a pulp and terrorizing Aurora , almost sexually molesting her when a couple , Antonio ( Gennaro Diana ) and Clara ( Santa De Santis ) pull up in the nick of time . The thugs warn Antonio to bugger off , but he has a gun and isn't afraid to use it . Able to shoo them away , Antonio offers Aurora and Rino a ride to their home for a moment or two of rest , and they accept . . little does Aurora know what plans they have for them . Alternating through the plot , a young boy is running through the woods to get away from a mysterious man who hit his mother with his van as she was attempting to flag him down ( . . their car run over broken glass , careening head-on with a tree , killing the father ) . Director Gabriele Albanesi mentions in the documentary for this film that his story and content was highly influenced by the 70's and 80's ( . . specificially Wes Craven , Tobe Hooper , Lucio Fulci , Ruggero Deodato and especially Dario Argento ) and you certainly see that here . Buckets upon buckets of blood and hideous gore . The film features cannibalism ( sharp teeth ripping flesh ) , nasty chainsaw activity ( an arm and leg are removed ; stomach is torn through with the intestines exposed ) , human freaks ( . . a child with shark-like teeth with a hunger for human flesh , along with his " brothers " , one with a large tumor-like growth on his neck and another with a hideous skin infection on one side of his face ) , other degrees of potent violence ( . . a large knife is stabbed multiple times into a torso , another gets his throat sliced open ; a gun is used to bash a victim's skull ; a bullet wound to the forehead squirts blood ) , and , to cap it all off , the shocking fate towards the kid we see running through the woods seeking help . The film works off the familiar premise of innocent couple falling prey to a family who appears on the surface to be a normal member of the bourgeoisie society . . although , anyone who lives so far into the woods most of the time is hiding a secret . The dinner table scene is memorable as poor Aurora , tied to a chair , must watch Rino's decapitated leg being feasted on , while also getting showered in blood as the chainsaw is used to hack away his arm . Also , the hooligans , who almost raped Aurora , were bound to return to confront Antonio ( . . although , Albanesi fashions a rather contrived way for them to find his home ) . The film is played completely straight , with a classical music score complimenting the serious tone . The film , at it's core , is a showcase for make-up / special effects artist Sergio Stivaletti ( . . who was , at first , confronted by the director and his producer Gregory J Rossi on issues regarding his opinions on their effects ) who takes the small budget his young unproven filmmakers have at their disposal , delivering an extravaganza of bloodshed and grue . It's neat seeing practical effects , not CGI , used again , even if some of the set-pieces are considered primitive by today's standards . As expected with an Italian horror film , the material presented is full of bizarre behavior and strange characters . My major beef is Albanesi's decision to shoot certain action and violent set pieces in that frenzied , shaky-cam method ( . . he called it " warfare " , a change from the more polished , fluid Italian style , the kind of style I thoroughly enjoy ) . Albanesi mentions that several bloody set-pieces were inspired by Argento's Tenebre ( . . particularly the final gory set-piece ) . For old school gorehounds , this might be entertaining . . for the squeamish , not so fun .
British imitation of an American slasher where a horribly scarred dork seeks revenge on the high school group behind a prank gone awry . The group responsible have grown considerably and meet at their old abandoned high school by invitation for a class reunion , not knowing that the very one behind their little get together has violent plans in store for them . Finally arriving to DVD , I was one of many who watched it on VHS as a teenager . . hearing about it's release on DVD , I was thrilled . While the movie is set up in such an awkward fashion ( . . the opening , setting up Marty , the nerd's tragic accident at the hand's of clown , Skip , shortly after his classmates embarrassed him in a sex trick , lasts for quite a considerable amount of time ) , once the violence erupts , the film takes off . SLAUGHTER HIGH is a typical example of the slasher films it imitates , specifically Friday THE 13TH , except the killer is a nerd dressed in a jester hat with jingling bells , and the setting is an old high school instead of a camp . There are logic inconsistencies ( . . how can Marty be in two places at one time when the school is locked tight where the characters couldn't get out , or how could he move around the school so effectively without being spotted ? ) which become plausible when the revelation occurs at the end . The acid bath which shows charred flesh and a face melting into a skull is certainly the grisly highlight as is the accidental hatchet to the face . One couple are fried while in the heat of passionate sex and another victim is lifted in the air , his head plunged into a coat rack hook so he could stick around . One victim takes a swig from a beer can laced with an acid that causes his intestines to burst from his stomach ! The cast are never reliably convincing as either American or teenagers , specifically Caroline Munro who is still quite sexy but certainly not a realistic 18 year old by any means . The characters are your typical obnoxious brood who gulp down the beer , smoke pot , and snort coke while horse-playing and cracking jokes with each other . When facing crisis , they split up and make moronic decisions which gets each person killed . One point , Munro's Carol Manning pummels Marty down with a bat , drops her weapon before making sure he was unconscious , then runs for her life ! Simon Scuddamore makes for a sympathetic mistreated character , and you understand why he'd desire retribution , and his tragic suicide adds something melancholy to the tormented nerd , Marty . Some really ghastly make-up for Marty's acidified face . The setting is quite effective with it's deteriorated condition , cob webs , darkened halls , and state of decline after being left to rot for years after closing . The score by Harry Manfredini sounds too similar to Friday THE 13TH which will often bring that movie back to your mind especially during the protracted final as Munro attempts the escape from the killer in pursuit . While , SLAUGHTER HIGH doesn't necessarily set itself from amongst the pack , there's a sense of fun to this that so many others lack .
An evil spirit , impersonating a little 10 year old boy David , begins taking over the body of the one who conjured him through a Ouiji board . That person , Linda ( Whitesnake babe Tawney Kitaen ) , doesn't know about the whole possession part of this and as she operates it alone begins to change . The one responsible for even introducing Linda to the board is Brandon Sinclair ( soap opera star Patch from " Days of Our Lives " fame ) , a former flame , at a party . In amongst a partner , this possession is not possible , but in the privacy of an individual it is more than reasonable it will take hold on the one in communication with the spirit world . We get our whole understanding of this through Brandon , who is atheist , but strangely believes in the spirit world probably because he found evidence . The one mostly effected other than Linda is her lover , Jim ( Todd Allen ) . Jim is very skeptical of all of the happenings . . that is until it takes place right in front of him . Friends and people he knew begin to perish and it is certain that something is killing people . In a scene-stealing role , Kathleen Wilhoite ( barely recognizable in her punk garb ) plays a very unusual medium named Zarabeth . Unlike Kevin Tenney's " Night of the Demons " , this film is straight-faced taking a more serious approach to this tale which many might find a bit cheesy . I remember when I was young that this was quite a popular horror sleeper . It is actually quite entertaining if a bit slight . Perhaps it lacks ambition , but it is polished and stylish enough to enjoy . Not great , but worth a watch . Probably near the top of the heap in the " Ouiji Board " horror sub-genre because of it's production values .
A deeply sorrowful policeman , Dwayne Hopper ( Patrick O'Kane ) had a son kidnapped as did thirteen other families and the man responsible he discovers was picked up on a speeding charge . The man is Ronald Perkins ( Richard Brake ) , a pharmacist who's " friends with the judge " , but some particular comments he makes to Dwayne ( . . along with a missing finger ) throws up signals that he was the one who kidnapped his son . Pleading with an off-duty cop to investigate Perkins ' home , policeman Hal ( Dean Sansone ) hears noise in the basement and discovers a hidden room containing prison cells . . lifting a switch , the bars open and " they " are released . . those 14 kids , now ten years older , aren't remotely human as we'd describe . Hal is ferociously attacked and soon Dwayne , along with his prisoner , investigate for himself what lies within that secret room , and the horrifying discoveries will change the landscape of the sleepy town of Stone Grove forever . Craig Singer's PERKINS 14 ambiguously relates to us why these youths are such ferocious , cannibalistic , practically unstoppable predators . Through some collected recordings in Perkin's hidden room , Dwayne realizes that they were held prisoner , not allowed to talk , barely fed , and injected with drugs ( . . PCP is one such drug established ) . . being a pharmacist , Perkins may've even experimented with these kids , pumping their systems with only God know what . The killers resemble the fast-moving zombies of the modern horror era . . they move fast , their eyes are albino ( . . representing the loss of humanity , nothing visible ) , clothes tattered , and attack with feverish intensity . Victims who often encounter them have little time to defend themselves and the killers rip them to shreds , devouring their flesh like hungry vultures . The film is depressingly bleak and the story of the family of the Hoppers is quite a somber , tragic one . I feel like the film's strength is the effects on the Hoppers regarding the loss of the son and how happiness has eroded over time due to Dwayne's detachment from his loved ones and life in general . Before the killer youths are unleashed on the town , we see how Dwayne's obsession in finding Kyle has caused a friction between himself and his wife / daughter . Wife Janine ( Mihaela Mihut ) has been having an affair with a local stud , and daughter Daisy ( Shayla Beesley ) is enamored with a potential rock star . When circumstances pen the Hoppers inside the town sheriff's department , they will have to put aside their differences , and ban together . . but , facing the sheer thought of killing his son in order to save themselves is what drives the central emotional conflict , and Dwayne's plight draws enormous sympathy . It would be incredibly hard for a parent , once he's finally found the long-lost son everyone said was dead , to actually kill him . The hope that he can reach Kyle is what motivates the dread . . deep inside we know that Dwayne's outcome will probably not end well , but understand why he makes such decisions . While I don't understand why these kids attack humans with weapons , tearing into their flesh , and yet aren't able to determine any human emotion at all ( . . or understand that their actions aren't justified ) , they are a frightening brood . . director Singer displays their cruel methods of destruction ( . . such as the use of a champagne bottle to smash in a face or the off-distance shot of a flashlight bobbing up and down in the dark as we squishing sounds ) in devastating ways , while we also witness their nasty eating habits ( . . one victim's stomach is torn open as they remove his organs and intestines ) and determined pursuit for victims ( . . one female killer youth is so desirable for Janine , locked in a bathroom , her fingernails come apart as she rips up and down the door ) . The tragic fate of the Hoppers , at the hands of their own Kyle , is particularly chilling because a promise is broken . Most of the attacks are often cleverly disguised by Singer through camera movement , careful editing , and flickering light ( . . not to mention the darkness of night ) . Plenty of blood shed , though . The major problem that rather ate at me ( . . pun intended ) was the idea that Perkins planned all of this in advance , his imprisonment would set off the cycle of events that would ensue . . it's the " Saw " logic that everything would have to perfectly fall into place for his " revenge " on those who quit looking for their children ( . . his psychosis derives from the fact that those investigating the slaughter of his parents while he was in the house and could hear the whole thing gave up , just calling this situation a murder-suicide ) to be successful , with characters exactly behaving predictably as he planned it in his mind .
A lunatic , who watched his father shoot down his mother and her adulterous lover before putting a bullet in his mouth , escapes from a mental asylum after a sneak attack on his doctor who was attempting to retrieve a wooden flute , terrorizing an innocent teenager with a wounded leg who catches him attempting to bury a dead body . As Paul ( Frankie Avalon , in a startlingly effective performance ) was digging a burial spot for a woman he had recently strangled , troubled teenager , Marion ( Donna Wilkes ) stumbles upon him in the act . This confrontation was seemingly fated to happen because , strange enough , Marion had been having unpleasant visions / nightmares of Paul and his acts towards people along the way . . blood transfusions or not , the idea of being linked to someone mainly due to that is kind of feeble at best . Paul had buried a hatchet into the face of a driver who gave him a ride in his van ( . . this driver was absolutely tired of Paul's never-ceasing flute playing ) , picked up a sweet little loose honey who even slept with him ( . . only to criticize his loud flute music which bludgeons the ears of even the most patient of folks , with a necklace he had bought her used to suffocate her ) and plans the worst for Marion , stalking her everywhere she goes . Marion , before Paul entered her life , had been telling others about her frightening visions , including boyfriend / fisherman Joey ( William Kirby Cullen ) and school gal pal Cathy ( Noelle North ) , and the claims of seeing a psycho planning on burying a victim in a park near a beach without evidence causes them to worry about her mental health . Meanwhile , Paul awaits the moment where he will strike , and somehow Marion must convince somebody to believe her . The film is about as much a melodrama as a psycho-thriller with a sub-plot devoted to the ever-increasing estrangement between Marion and her antagonistic , bullish , drunk of a father , Frank ( Richard Jaeckel ) . Frank's drunkenness was behind the crash which caused Marion's damaged leg . He also is very negatively vocal against her relationship with Joey . Bea ( Antoinette Bower ) , Marion's mother , tries to consistently calm Frank and this tense drama makes up a chunk of the overall film . It all culminates towards the end as Paul attacks Frank with a hatchet in the film's most graphically violent scene which will lead to the maniac chasing after Marion into a darkened sawmill . There's an interesting psychological twist which provides a grim conclusion concerning Marion's state of well being . I think Frankie Avalon's clean-cut , matinée image provides a startling contrast to what hides bubbling under the surface . . I think he actually embraces the dark side of this part and with this new freedom , plays the killer to the hilt . I like how he's actually a wimpy child , his mania as a result of temper tantrums when people " hurt him . " Thanks to the cinematography which presents Paul in a murky manner , Avalon is often shrouded in darkness , his unsettling grin present until provoked towards violence when you insult him . See , Avalon has this kind and soft look about him , he seems very approachable and charming , and then you flick that switch ( . . even on accident ) with the monster released . . that's what I liked best about this little-known slasher . Many slasher faithful will find the home drama perhaps trifling and dull , but I liked the fact that the filmmakers attempted to flesh the characters out . I didn't think the " visions " angle worked , at all really , but the finale ( . . the chase through the sawmill ) was suspenseful and exciting . I have to say , I liked this better than I thought I would . I think it does have a lot to do , though , with the blue collar environment and that the lead actress is normal looking ( . . the 80's , unlike the films of the last 15 or so years , actually featured female leads which looked like someone you might have actually went to school with ) with her own mundane problems to deal with .
" No matter how clever you are , you can not hide murder . " A bank's president steals from the vault of his own company , hides it in a secret passage way safe within the room of his own house , rented for the summer by a popular crime novelist . Cornelia van Gorder ( Agnes Moorehead ) and her unflappable maid , Lizzie ( Lenita Lane ) occupy the residence of bank president John Fleming ( Harvey Stephens ) , during the summer season to write another novel , understanding that a series of savage murders by a killer known as The Bat have occurred inside this mansion . The Bat's disguise is a black mask over his head to make his face invisible , under a black hat , wearing a glove with claws that rip apart throats . . the killer lands a crushing blow to the throat of victims before using his claws . John Fleming is on a hunting trip with his friend , town coroner Dr . Malcolm Wells ( Vincent Price ) , and admits to stealing the money , offering a partnership . . the plan is to kill their hunting guide , use his body as a cover for John , and together withdraw the money from his safe . What John doesn't count on is Wells double crossing him , resulting in the corrupt banker's murder . . it's set up that Wells knows where the loot is and his criminal behavior might indicate that he in fact is The Bat serial killer . We even see that Wells experiments with bats in his laboratory . After her hired help leave out of fear that The Bat could return , Cornelia will have to rely on Lizzie and her chauffeur , Warner ( John Sutton ) as the only support while living in the mansion . Soon Cornelia and Lizzie are confronted by The Bat who attempts to find the hidden loot , and they seek the help of local police , led by Lt . Andy Anderson ( Gavin Gordon ) . Soon John's son , Mark ( John Bryant ) is murdered by The Bat after he uncovers his father's hidden blueprints which are a map to where the loot is located . Will The Bat be caught ? Who is the murderer ? Is it Wells , who we witness murder John in cold blood ? Is it the butler , Warner ( . . promoted from his chauffeur position ) who always seems to be away when The Bat is snooping around ? Could it be somebody else who might have a motive , knows about the loot , and could find opportunities to perpetrate the grounds of the mansion ? Entertaining , compact little " old dark house " chiller , aided by the star power of Agnes Moorehead and Vincent Price . I applaud the whopper of a red herring , even though I'm pretty sure others will call the bluff proposed by the filmmakers . Price is effectively sinister and sly , while the film doesn't completely isolate him as the only possible suspect . . his murder of John is a stunner , superbly executed . Moorehead is theatrical enough ( . . and seems to be enjoying herself ) as a deductive amateur sleuth , with Lane suitably silly as her often frightened pal . Elaine Edwards is Dale Bailey , the wife of an imprisoned banker who was indicted for John's wrong-doing , seeking comfort and refuge with Cornelia . . as does Judy Hollander ( Darla Hood ) , someone who is needed as an eyewitness for the trial and can provide testimony rescuing Dale's husband , Victor ( Mike Steele ) . The film's highlights include The Bat's constant attempts to infiltrate the Fleming mansion , his attacks on victims who are in the wrong place at the wrong time , and a particular scuffle in Wells ' lab where the killer's identity will be discovered . I think observant viewers can determine the killer judging by behavior alone , but there are several clues that also indicate who he could be . Nice use of the setting as our heroines attempt to survive , find the possible place where the stash is hidden , and catch the killer . Fans of Price and Moorehead shouldn't be too disappointed .
Dark , often somber ( . . while also being quite outrageous and comic ) psychological parable of what man , in a state of unrest and distress , would do to become rich . Chit's ( Krissada Terrence ) life is in a state of turmoil . He has been fired from his musical instrument salesman job , lost his girlfriend to rock stardom , and is tormented by a past with a horrible , abusive father . Holding unpaid bills in his hand and seeing his car towed away , Chit is faced with quite a crisis . A call from an unknown source proclaiming to be a reality show game offers Chit a chance to make millions if he agrees to participate in a series of challenges , phoned to him by the network behind the reality show . Each obstacle becomes increasingly more hostile and amoral , as Chit's actions make him a wanted man , his face on the news and the police looking for his whereabouts . Eventually , Chit will have to make a harrowing decision if he wishes to win the big bucks . Either decision will change Chit's life forever . While a bit far-fetched , Chukiat Sakveerakul's tale of desperation exploring the boundaries we are willing to go to achieve fortune sure grips hold thanks to fascinating subject matter . I doubt that Chit could've made it as far as he did , because the screenplay ( . . how this game show's network is able to always have everything in place by the time their contestant gets there without fail ) depends a hell of a lot on coincidence . And , one wonders if anyone ( . . of course a few numskulls would in this day and age of greed and corruption ) , let alone poor sap Chit , would continue down such a dark path . This film is a lot like SAW in that a character runs through a series of obstacles where his decisions have great repercussions and everything that occurs from the moment he starts is based on being at the right place at exactly the right time . This is above all things a movie and obviously Chit will make it through every single scenario regardless of how unbelievable they are ( . . like his unlikely escape from a police force after him in a hospital ) . Sakveerakul and company ask for a leap of faith . . . are you willing to take it ? The same question would be asked to those who watch SAW and it's endless supply of sequels . " 13 : Game of Death " has a voice , though , and isn't just an elaborate puzzlebox with endless death traps and gory murders . It has something to say and , despite a series of violent actions and aftermath of the game Chit's playing ( . . what a clothing line does to traveling motorcyclists and the vicious attack on ex-girlfriend's abusive beau with a steel chair ) , this film isn't really gory . I'm not sure why it's part of the Dimension Extreme label . There's some blood , and the allegory on display is a wicked one with an ending that will depress the hell out of you , but " 13 : Game of Death " isn't that extreme . The most warped sequence would have to be when Chit must go into a well , emerging from it with the corpse of the elderly cripple inside it while calling his uncaring relatives after he reaches the top ! The film is clever , paced extremely well , with stunning camera-work , well acted , and exhausting . But , boy , does our hero get run through the ringer .
We watch in the opening of the film a detective named Vidocq ( Gérard Depardieu ) in battle with what appears to be a supernatural being with a glass framed face buried within a black cloak . It looks as if Vidocq fell to his doom in a fire-pit in the guts of a glassworks factory . His " biographer " Etienne ( Guillaume Canet ) wishes to pursue his hero's case and the film follows him from lead to lead learning about the killer called The Alchemist who is a mythic ghost whose glass face is said to steal the souls of victims . How Vidocq took the case was through a Chief of Police trying to figure out how three prominent members of Paris society wound up dead , two of them being burnt by lightning ( the two who are actually burnt are an arms dealer and chemist ) . We find as Etienne dig deeper and deeper that these three only had love in their hearts for themselves and would do anything to preserve their youth . . even making a deal with The Alchemist by supplying him pure virgins from poor families they pay so that they can receive a serum for not aging . All this revolves around a tumultuous political climate ( . . which might become an upheaval ) as King Charles is threatening the suppression of the press and dissolving of parliament . Also , Paris in 1830 is quite a lurid , perverse place where any vice of anyone with wealthy means could be satisfied . We see this as Etienne continues on his journey to find answers to Vidocq's demise . Director Pitof's in-your-face style may be jarring or unnerving for some viewers because the camera suffocatingly closes in on the actors faces . We get all close and personal even with the ugly sorts with rotted teeth or vile expressions . The film's special effects almost look purposely unrealistic and surreal creating a Paris so bizarre it's almost otherworldly . The Alchemist is quite a creation as he can do so many acrobatic and supernatural things . Another thing I found stunning was how Pitof's camera moves . It rotates around , following the characters and action . Pitof also likes his camera shooting upward from the ground . We rarely see a simply , ordinary shot of characters . . everything seems unorthodox and unusual . And , the twist that comes at the end turns your usual detective story on it's head . I certainly didn't see it coming .
The mysterious Princess Obongo ( Ajita Wilson ) of the Canary Islands , who may or may not be dead , and her erotic ( . . and perhaps evil ) effects on a vacationing couple . Alice ( Lina Romay ) is a real estate agent and her lover ( Antonio Mayans ) , a writer , are overcome by the passionate dreams featuring Obongo and the film follows their submission to her lustful will . What are Obongo's motives ? More importantly , who is she and what does she symbolize / represent ? What is her purpose and / or objective for Alice and her lover ? While the film is essentially another VERY stylized and evocative porno , Franco uses imagery of voodoo , African statues & tribal objects , along with the stunning locations of the South of the Canary Islands and dream-like sequences between Obongo ( mostly relishing her acts towards her quarry ) and her prey , to create an otherworldly experience . I don't think one ever truly feels the film is grounded in reality , and I do feel that's what Franco was going for . The film is really about Franco's love affair with the Canary islands and Romay's naked flesh . . the director's camera embraces both . I do think the setting , and voodoo imagery layered within , are crucial for the atmosphere produced in this film . I didn't particularly find any of the characters attractive , so the other strengths worked more for me that the multiple sex sequences . Ajita Wilson is quite a presence on screen , if the others in the film do little to assist her . Romay looks rather ridiculous in that wig , but she is basically in the film to move and twist her naked body in a bed , or being seduced by Wilson and her hideous , dog collared entourage .
Toshiharu Ikeda's " Evil Dead Trap " seems to start out as an effective , ultra-violent slasher . One can clearly see where the Saw franchise may've gotten a few ideas . But , once most of the victims have been eliminated , this film takes a Mondo Bizarro turn and definitely left this viewer's jaw dropping a loud thud to the floor . Television station late night talk show host is sent what appears to be a snuff video recording where a female victim is mutilated by a knife blade , ripping her flesh , stabbing into her eyeball . Nami Tsuchiya ( Miyuki Ono ) wishes to pursue the one responsible ( . . she doesn't take the recording as serious , actually making funny to her director about boosting rating if she were killed by the psycho on assignment ) , who left a way of travel on the recording to an abandoned military installation , fallen to ruin , but her employers haven't the budget to fund such an expedition . So Nami's television crew , opt to join her , not knowing that a serial killer lies in wait , ready to butcher them in various ways , setting traps they'll unfortunately walk into . Nami meets a mysterious , handsome , quietly enigmatic man who tells her to be careful as he pursues his brother Hideki . This man knows more than he's telling and will meet up with Nami once again , after she loses her friends , who fall to the killer one by one . The major twist which is certain to floor a few folks if they haven't read up on this film is exactly who Hideki really is and how he will effect her life forever . As I mentioned at the very start , Ikeda sets up the film following the usual patterns well established in the slasher genre . A group of young adults enter into the hunting ground of a hidden psychopath , dying in gruesome ways . The first to die had just finished having sex with her boyfriend , who was the show's assistant director . Eventually , the characters separate , converge together , then walk into traps set by the killer . Like in numerous slashers , dead bodies surprise victims who only realize just what their up against after witnessing them . Wooden spikes stab through a female victim . One female victim , who actually makes it out of the warehouse , is attacked by the killer's servant , who subsequently sexually molests her while gripping her throat , strangling her just enough to keep her at bay as he forces himself in her as she struggles mightily to escape . Before he's executed with a metal pike rammed through his face and out his mouth , this deviant informs her ( . . but , more importantly , us ) that the two killers are actually one . She hopes to free herself , but is dragged over the roof of the company van by a wire noose slamming head-first to pavement . Another is bound by tape , as Nami trips a wire which sends a swinging blade into the side of her face . But , these elaborate death sequences ( . . including the opening snuff kill which certainly informs the viewer what you're up against ) pale in comparison with Nami's introduction and on-going battle with Hideki . That is certainly the show-stopping finale ( . . including what happens to Nami at the very end when she believes she had finally rid herself of Hideki forever ) I never saw coming . The very definition of " the rug being swept out from under you . " For the exception of Ono and her mysterious assistant , the rest of the cast ( . . like in your common slasher movie ) are disposable victims .
Ray Pyke ( Marc Senter ) is a narcissistic developing psychopath , whose volatile nature is sure to eventually meet a crescendo of violence as his drug habit and infantile fits of rage represent a volcano on it's way to eruption . Ray's friend Tim ( Alex Frost ) and girlfriend Jen ( Shay Astar ) bare witness to his gunning down two girls camping out , and must carry such a burden out of fear for their safety ( . . that , and Ray has a control over them ) . This depraved act of violence works as a reminder to us that Ray is a ticking timebomb , as we watch his life slowly spiral out of control as Detective Charlie Schilling ( Michael Bowen ) hounds him over the murders , knowing that he's the one responsible , just without proof . Ray is the kind of dirtbag who dresses like a country stud , with boots ( . . with crushed bear cans to make him look taller ) , black jeans and shirt ( . . with additional slight touches of eyeliner ) & hair slicked back right in place . Sparta , as we soon realize , is a small blot in Texas where dreams are elsewhere and the pretty girls who live in this place have few options in regards to male suitors so Ray is one they flock to . He's merely an assistant manager of his mom's " Bates Motel " , but carries himself as if he ruled the world . Just charismatic enough to attract the local female , but it's merely an endless parade of humping and dumping , with the girls returning because there's nobody else it seems . Three particular female characters which have the misfortune to have ever found themselves locked into Ray's radar are Sally Richmond ( Alice Hirson ) , a young woman , temporarily working as a maid for his hotel , who wants nothing at all to do with him , recognizing the kind of sleazoid he really is ( . . that , and she is involved with a 60 year old retired detective portrayed by screen vet Ed Lauter ) , Kat Wallace ( Robin Sydney ) , a wealthy babe , her mom a schizophrenic , whose obviously attracted to the danger and mystery he presents ( . . that , and she's bored and craving excitement ) , not knowing how obsessive and juvenile he really is , and , of course , Jen who would do anything to please him , always on the receiving end of neglect , ridicule . , and abuse . Somewhat holding himself together , while abusing drugs and liquor , it's only an amount of time before Ray snaps . The fuse is lit by Katherine who Ray longs for in every possible way , as she backs away from a possible relationship . . it's realized that Ray was a fling for her , and she wishes to move on with her life . Also adding to this is the discovery that Tim and Jen have slept together ( . . and that Tim has been taking hash from him ) . We have come to the understanding that Ray's sanity is hanging by a thread and it won't require much for him to crack . Sivertson's disturbing portrait of decaying youth bent on destruction , given commanding treatment thanks to how developed the story is , and how it will end . Ray is the kind of character just looking for an excuse to terrorize somebody , and Senter does a good job of displaying the many facets of his troubled character . . someone attracted to the spotlight , addicted to a neverending stream of girls and drugs , also carrying serious homicidal tendencies , whose anger fits and outbursts serve as a warning of things to come . Robin Sydney is quite a find , a stunning bombshell whose quite photogenic and seductive ( . . the camera loves her ) . . you can see how such a gal would cause Ray ( . . or many a man ) to get all out of sorts . Astar is appropriately pathetic , and sympathetic as Ray's much maligned squeeze , deeply in love with him no matter how emotionally he abuses her . . Ray doesn't even hide his sexual excess from her , yet Jen remains loyal to him . Frost is the buddy who probably wishes to be Ray , to have the girls at his feet , the charisma to approach people the way he does . This setting is rather depressing in that we see a cast of characters with little to do but embrace the drug and sex culture available . Ray's fury at the end is rather unsettling and shocking , once he decides to go on a shooting rampage , killing anyone he so chooses ( . . this has been on the horizon for some time , and Kat's rejection of him finally sends him over the edge ) , gathering up the girls who infuriated him the most . We also follow Schilling's dogged determination and on-going interrogation to bring Ray to justice , getting what he has so longed for with the unfortunate price of lives . Sivertson's skills as a visual filmmaker are proved here ( . . and in I KNOW WHO KILLED ME , although that one is ridiculously convoluted and silly ) with how he captures the events and characters , building them to the eventual climax . Carefully , Sivertson details what will bring Ray to the breaking point , and those characters who are effected by his rage . The climax takes place in the cabin where Ray discovered the guns used on innocent people , and is appropriately chilling , as he collects the girls who caused his psychological trauma together . . completely unglued , Ray has become lost to madness ( even besieging a couple there to clean up the place ; his violence towards them is truly unpleasant , to say the least ) as Schilling grills Tim for his whereabouts .
Long ago the ancestors of Irena and Paul Gallier ( Nastassja Kinski & Malcolm McDowell ) sacrificed their children to the leopards . The souls of the children grew inside the leopards until the leopards became human . They were gods then . They are an incestuous race and can only make love with their own . . otherwise they transfer . Before becoming human again , they must kill . This is explained in a dream sequence to Irena because she is falling head-over-heels for Oliver ( John Heard ) , the main man at a New Orleans zoo . His assistant is Alice ( Annette O'Toole ) and they have to tranquilize a leopard that has almost killed a hooker in one of those sleazy hotel rooms . That panther is actually Paul having succumbed to lust he must needs kill somehow . Unfortunately his wish comes true when Joe ( Ed Begley Jr ) , another one of Oliver's assistants , gets his whole arm ripped out of the torso when he is trying to calm the cat down . Paul's sole desire is to mate with Irena so their torment will end regarding that change that occurs when one strays away from their own kind . But , Irena is so attracted to Oliver that Paul doesn't stand a chance . There in lies the conflict . Oliver deeply desires and wants Irena and vice versa , yet she is caught in an unfortunate situation thanks to her bloodline and heredity . If they partake in wanton sexual activity , she will turn and have to kill . I think the film looks great . Special thanks for the film's visual style goes to Ferdinando Scarfiotti . Director Paul Schrader said that if the powers-that-be would've allowed it he would've added Scarfiotti as co-director . His ideas behind the zoo lab ( how it is set-up is quite original and unique . . it really gives Schrader a chance to be creative with his camera and how he lenses Heard's zoologist walking throughout it ) and the sandy landscape of the ancient sequences at the beginning where we see the leopard sacrificial ritual are stunning . Splashes of color and how Irena sees are flavorful to the eye . Though , despite how wooed I was with how it looked , I thought the story was a bit corny . It's quite lurid and sexually free . Kinski really gives herself over to the part and Schrader's camera hypnotically embraces her . She must expose her beautiful nude body frequently . Though , one might call the film unabashedly sleazy . I mean , I'm not about to complain regarding seeing Annette O'Toole's nice breasts , but one could make a pretty good argument that it was unnecessary . This film only has really one relation to the original film too many people tried to compare it to . . the pool sequence where O'Toole's Alice is possibly threatened by Irena . The transformation sequence isn't too shabby if quick . What's funny ( . . this is how I felt anyway ) was that the film feels so sophisticated it seems to come off less perverse than it really is .
Director Harald Reinl ( The Torture Chamber of Dr . Sadism ) helms this solid , complex Krimi , another entertaining entry in the Dr . Mabuse series starring Gert Fröbe ( . . the great Bond villain , Goldfinger ) as an inspector , Lohmann , investigating a case in regards to several murders connected to a crime syndicate . Lohmann soon discovers that the murders are connected to a prison ran by Warden Wolf ( Fausto Tozzi ) with certain prisoners , hypnotized and operating at another's orders , willing to kill for the mastermind over their control , that being Dr . Mabuse himself . Along for the ride are Lex Barker , as a double agent , Joe Corno / Nick Scappio and reporter Dahlia Lavi ( . . as Maria Sabrehm ) . As the mystery unravels , Maria is actually daughter to a brilliant chemist unjustly sent to prison , Professor Julius Sabrehm , who has reluctantly provided the chemical agent which removes the humanity of prisoners , which conditions them to follow orders at the will of their controller . Werner Peters is Böhmler , whose responsibilities are to keep the prisoners in line , and secretly reports to Mabuse . Rudolf Fernau is Pfarrer Briefenstein , a suspicious priest , who may also be part of Mabuse's network , operatives using his church as a base . The movie's plot stays busy , keeping your mind occupied , as Lohmann attempts to tear apart the syndicate with Mabuse quietly orchestrating a plot to attack an atomic power plant using the zombie prisoners . Characters like Joe Como and Maria have their own agendas , so the film often keeps you guessing as to the characters ' motivations and who Lohmann can trust . It was neat seeing Fröbe in the detective role , trying to uncover the truth as to where Mabuse is located ( . . if it is even Mabuse ; he's supposed to be dead ) and how to stop him . Lavi is just to die for , positively gorgeous , with those wonderful curves . . what a fine specimen . I thought RETURN OF DR MABUSE was quite atmospheric with a fine detective story that maintains interest , even if you can figure out the mastermind of the operation . I liked the mad science aspects as to how Mabuse commands his zombie soldiers and watching Lohmann's response to the diabolical criminal . . the cat-and-mouse between the two always keeps the plot interesting . I also liked how Lohmann isn't the most perfect inspector , sometimes outwitted by Mabuse ( . . of course , he does put together the pieces of the puzzle , but Mabuse , at times , gains the upper hand ) . Intriguing idea regarding Mabuse's use of criminals , his main base of operations being a prison . . talk about thumbing your nose to the police !
Odile ( Alicia Príncipe ) is a young woman just writhing with the desire of sexual embrace . It's only a matter of time before someone ( . . or multiple someones ) would offer their services to her . Often freely sporting her naked flesh , soon a couple discover her from their own hotel bedroom and a sexual rendezvous will commence . What Odile doesn't expect when she takes up an offer to join the couple on a trip to an isolated island estate is the Count Von Karlstein ( Daniel Katz ) and Countess Wanda Von Karlstein ( Carmen Carrión ) a wealthy elite who are also into kinky sex with sado-masochistic tendencies . Odile's mistake in trusting in Mario's ( Maura Ribera ) ' s bi-sexual wife ( Mari Carmen Nieto ) who is the culprit behind her seduction . . what Odile does not realize is that when you travel down the road to passion and ecstasy , embracing the sexually free lifestyle she soon excepts with open arms , comes a dangerous price when associating yourself with the wrong person . To be honest , I felt Jesús Franco's " Sexual Story of O " is ultimately about sexual awakening and the dangers of embracing a sexually free lifestyle with just anyone . . often is the case , there are repercussions if you have passionate relations with just anyone . In Odile's case , she is " selected " by a woman searching for another without inhibitions or restrictions . . some woman who is yearning for the touch of another , whether it be male or female . Odile lets her guard down , because of this attraction and free-spirited delight towards Mari Nieto's seductress . Franco successfully builds their scenes , starting with the eye-contact between Odile and Mario's wife , while we also see that Odile ogles Mario , from their hotel windows . . an opportunity is presented , and we watch as Mario's wife makes the first move . Odile could very well turn her down , yet a heart-pounding desire inside both women drives them to accept the passion that awaits them . An three-way commences , as well as a heated lesbian encounter , where Mari Nieto's seductress enters Odile's room ready for action . The last portion of the film has us entering the world of the Count and Countess , where we see how Odile's life will be threatened when their masochistic appetites emerge . Mario , his wife & Odile meet them , there are dinners , and soon Odile is unconscious on a bed as others ( Mario's wife and the Count ) disrobe and molest her as the Countess looks on , so moved by what she sees that an act of masturbation soon begins . Franco's camera really likes to move in on characters ' faces as sexual acts take place showing the pleasure of watching . My favorite sequence , the lesbian encounter in Odile's hotel room couch between her and Mario's wife . . Franco's camera really moves in close and both actresses seem to be into the moment , especially a long kiss as their tongues slide and caress . I do feel that " Sexual Story of O " is just that . . her sexual experiences which soon leads down a dangerous path .
Cold , but intelligent sci-fi horror flick from director Curtis Harrington made on a shoe-string , using special effects from a foreign source to save money . Harrington depends on the scientific aspects of the story while keeping the look of the film ( for the exception of the marvelous alien sets , closer to the decade's previous horde of sci-fi horror flicks keeping elements in tighter confinements meaning the ship in which a small crew ( including John Saxon , Dennis Hopper , Judi Meredith & Robert Boon ) have brought on board an alien queen vampire who uses a hypnotic ability to " freeze " men so that she can feast on their blood . Her people were supposed to come to earth as " greeters " , but instead wind up on Mars ' moon . Only the Queen survived . They do not know of her mental telekinetic powers and each fall prey to her . The ending is quite rewarding and inspired ( . . and influential ) . . it has an apocalyptic quality that feeds into how science can perhaps lead to total destruction of the human race . Can desiring to learn and study alien life outside our own lead to the threat of complete distinction ? Such a powerful question from a low-budget , no-money sci-fi horror .
For those who have seen The Prowler , it will be of no surprise that Friday the 13th Part IV is one of the most savage entries of the series . Joseph Zito seems to be a director born to helm a Friday the 13th film as Jason resembles the psycho of his past film . Unlike past installments , Jason Voorhies seems more of an unstoppable killing machine , able to withstand great punishment despite suffering blows and wounds that'd easily finish off most human beings . He seems hellbent on eliminating anyone who stands in his way . . those who live on his turf die , simple as that . A group of teens arrive at a cabin nearby Crystal Lake where 10 people were executed at the hands of Jason Voorhies . Voorhies , presumed dead , kills a nurse and coroner , escaping the hospital on his way home to take up where he left off . This time a brother of a murdered girl is preparing to meet Jason , Rob Dyer ( Erich Anderson ) , and finds a potential love-interest along the way , Trish ( Kimberly Beck ) , who lives with her young brother Tommy ( Corey Feldman ) and divorcée mom ( Joan Freeman ) near the cabin where the group of teens are spending the summer . While the teens meet twins from another cabin not too far from them , Jason is around somewhere ready to attack anyone in the vicinity . Zito effectively uses Manfredini's familiar musical score , and Jason seems more menacing than ever , plunging his knife into the bodies of teens who have no idea a killer is among them . Groups hook up and engage in sex and shenanigans , dying not long after . Memorable death sequences abound as Tom Savini expresses through his bloody great gore effects how he has evolved since working on Cunningham's Friday the 13th . We seen a chunky hitchhiker stabbed through the throat while eating a banana . One victim not only is stabbed in the hand with a bottle-top corkscrew , but is struck in the face with a knife . A female victim is pulled through a window , tossed off the balcony and directly into the roof of a station wagon below . One poor soul , taking a shower , gets his face crushed in . Another gets an ax driven into her chest . Even a dog is thrown threw a window . Rob's fate , as a helpless Trish watches , as he screams , " He's killing me ! " packs a horrifying wallop . And , a painful use of a harpoon to the crotch ( . . the harpoon is a weapon Jason has used over and over again effectively to kill his prey in one way or another ) leaves a lasting impression . But , the climax hums best as poor Trish must fend for her life , while attempting to protect Tommy , as Jason comes at her without restraint . The one portraying Jason this time , Ted White , actually has the killer moving more urgently / aggressively which ratchets up the terror for Trish as she must think fast and not let up or else . Of course the addition of Corey Feldman ( . . as a weird kid with awesome custom-made masks and toys who finds a way of communicating with Jason ) and the great Crispin Glover ( making the most of a " teen victim " role as the nerdy and extremely shy Jimmy who just wants to get laid ) who is the very symbol of rejection ( . . before his exit , Jimmy does get respect from his stoner pal , Ted ( Lawrence Monoson ) who ridiculed him for being such a lousy lay ) adds weight to this particular installment . Glover's dance deserves all the accolades reaped upon it . . it's a think of beauty . Beck , as the final girl , really stands her ground against Jason , a resourceful gal who even lunges through a window , onto a balcony , landing hard to the ground just so she could escape an even more grim fate . The machete damage to Jason at the end just shows Savini's prowess as a supreme effects man . A lot of love to Judie Aronson as Samantha , for her uninhibited nature gave us lots of eye candy to digest .
The House of Hammond is burdened by a family history of suicides at the supposed sight of a monster . When a nurse . . and Oliver Hammond ( John Howard ) , who now owns the current estate of his family . . is attacked at the edge of a sea-side cliff next to the lane traveling to the Hammond estate , Scotland Yard science detectives Curtis ( James Ellison ) and his unflappable assistant Christy ( the delightful Heather Thatcher ) are called on to solve the mystery that has shrouded the family for centuries . Also left mangled and torn at the scene of the attack is a dead cocker spaniel dog . The troubling aspect of this crime scene , where it appears as if a savage animal of some sort committed the carnage , is that there are no footprints leaving a trace of what caused such a violent rampage . With the nurse unconscious in a coma and slowly withering away from a severe brain hemorrhage , amazingly Oliver is recuperating well despite some nasty cuts and bruises he supposedly suffered at the hands of whatever caused the attacks . When asked about what committed the attacks , though , Oliver's muddled story leaves little for Curtis and Christy , and the village police , to go by . Ruffling the feathers of the Hammonds and their hired help , it appears that secrets are being held from Curtis and Christy as they pursue the truth behind the deaths that have plagued this family for so long . Also acting suspiciously is the village doctor , Jeff Colbert ( Bramwell Fletcher ) who seems to be deliberately making things difficult for Curtis such as muffling the footprints left on the floor of a secret locked room , or his taking the Hammond family history book from a library before the detective could retrieve it . And , curiously , why would a renowned brain specialist leave London for a small village position ? Would it be that he has designs on marrying Helga Hammond ( Heather Angel ) who would be sole heir of her family estate if Oliver was out of the way ? Curtis and Christy will have to use their scientific methods of spectrum DNA analysis , which has solved cases in the past , if they wish to figure out what monster , or possible human murderer , is behind the death of the nurse who would succumb to her injuries . Before directing " The Lodger " , John Brahm does what he was commissioned to do . . bring an atmospherically crafted mystery , shooting from all sorts of fantastic angles , with his cunning abilities using the camera , fluidly expressing a sense of style that would later cement his legacy as a quietly underrated genius . You can see how Universal inspired other studios in just how " The Undying Monster " opens . I felt the " bending trees " which populate the surrounding areas of the Hammond estate , and the massive studio sets representing the inside of Hammond castle ( . . and the mausoleum housing the Hammond ancestry ) , resemble " Frankenstein " more than " The Wolf Man " , the model obviously for the werewolf theme in " The Undying Monster " . You can certainly see what skills director Brahm had in the studio system such as the opening shot where the camera eyeballs various Hammond staples in the living room of the castle , and the nurse running for her life down the lane as the camera follows her from a distance . I loved one particular shot where Brahm's camera captures a conversation behind the rising flames of a fireplace . The monster itself , certainly a werewolf style which resembles the iconic Jack Pierce standard , only makes a major appearance at the end . . only do we get a good look at it's face , with the director using the usual dissolves from hair to face when we find out who is plagued with lycanthropy . A good portion of this film , though , is the unveiling of a mystery , with Curtis discovering what secrets this family might be hiding , while also utilizing the new methods of investigation to find about about strange evidence in order to find out what caused the attacks that lead to an unfortunate death . The script has the family's past as sordid with supposedly a member selling his soul to the devil . That kind of reputation only fuels the idea of a monster , with the family's name continuously remaining notorious . As each suspect is ruled out , Curtis , a scientist who scoffs at the notion of the supernatural , will discover , through science no less , just who his culprit actually is . Lycanthropy , in this film , is looked at as an affliction of a diseased mind , passed down through the generations . Thanks to Brahm's sure hand , and an interesting script , this film rises above being just a Wolf Man rip-off . But , this was just a stepping stone to greater triumphs , with " The Undying Monster " serving as a template where Brahm would lay the stylistic groundwork for what was to come later .
Two oil men , Robert ( Massimo Foschi in a very demanding role ) and Rolf ( Ivan Rassimov ) get lost in the wilderness and have to fend for their lives in the jungle populated by a Cannibal tribe whose methods hearken back to the Stone Age . They get separated after an unfortunate incident riding a river when their raft breaks apart on top of rocky rapids . Robert especially finds himself in a precarious position . He is taken by a tribe , raped of his clothes , and imprisoned for use as an alligator target ( they use various animals to trap alligators for their meat ) . Somehow Robert must find away out of their clutches and back to the airstrip holding the airplane that brought him to the godforsaken jungle . With a female Pulan ( Me Me Lai ) he will need her to introduce him to foods or means of nourishment to stay alive . But , the presence of those cannibals always weighs on Robert's mind . More of a survivalist drama than a horror film shows various snakes feeding ( such as a fruit-bat & Gila monster ) and does show the cannibals partake in a human meal . Stnningly photographed and quite exciting , this film surprised me a bit as we see Robert slowly descend into a primitive in order to make it in this beast of a habitat .
Surprisingly effective little sci-fi horror flick produced by Charles Band's Full Moon Pictures . Experiments funded by the military has a staggering side-effect when the head scientist , Dr . Van Fleet ( James Hong ) discovers that an alternate universe exists when a subject is induced into a vast , deep sleep . . something sinister lies on the other side and uses the subject as a portal into our world . Everyone within the underground facility are in danger as the being which has found it's way into our dimension is hostile towards those it / they consider a threat . Captain Hickock ( David Beecroft ) is investigating the mysterious death of a test subject in the underground facility and we can see that the scientists involved with the EDS ( Extreme Dream Sleep ) are hiding something . Sensing this , Hickock wishes to see the printout results on the corpse and to settle doubts that his death wasn't a result of the sleep experiment . . unconvinced of the results , and unpersuaded that Van Fleet's claims of a genetic cerebral hemorrhage as the cause are correct , he wishes to see if another current subject would suffer the exact fate if the sleep levels were the same . In doing this procedure , the current subject is induced into sleep too long and the being from the other universe is able to use him as a gateway into our plain . This puts everyone in peril for the being has the amazing power to shift it's molecular structure and can imitate anything lifted from the thoughts of humans . It travels throughout the facility and must be caught and killed or else . . once it attacks Van Fleet who had locked himself in the sleep lab with the being , we realize that it is not exactly friendly . Really neat B-movie cast includes Louise Fletcher as a rather odd scientist ( Dr . Erhardt ) who finds the being spellbinding , and seems to have been cut off from society a bit too long , and Miguel A . Núñez Jr . as computer specialist / electronics genius Wiley . If you have seen Miguel A . Núñez Jr . in other films , you can just about expect his fate . David Beecroft is your typical hero , an outsider unaccustomed to the way things are in an underground facility isolated from the world he belongs . Through Hickock , Beecroft is a no-nonsense , take-charge kind of character who is realistic and practical when faced with a really difficult situation , which he certainly inherits when searching for the truth regarding the death of a civilian . Frederick Flynn is the tobacco-chewing , easily rattled handyman , Tommy Shivers , who could use a shave , bath , and some manners . He's also really bad at his job , and we see how poorly managed and worse-for-wear the facility is as Hickock inspects the place . . pipes often spit steam , water leaks are apparent , and rats are visible in the kitchen area . Affected by earthquakes and hampered by such a small staff , the facility sure could use a make-over . The being itself is a series of monsters , not particularly as scary now due to the advancement in special effects ( . . or as effective as say Bottin's work in THE THING or Stan Winston's work in PUMPKINHEAD ) , but effectively grotesque when they pop up on characters . . the monkey creature is quite a ghastly creation . I have read about SHADOWZONE's comparison to ALIEN , but the only similarity I noticed was the plot regarding characters roaming the halls and rooms of the facility as the being is somewhere in the vicinity . . some attempting to put food together for the long haul with Hickock & Wiley attempting to repair the damaged transformer after the mishap regarding the being's entry into our universe . Shawn Weatherly is scientist Dr . Kidwell , who is so attached to her pet monkey ( . . a supposed lab animal no longer needed when Van Fleet began to test human subjects ) she'll risk her life to find it when it goes missing . . the twist regarding her finding a monkey is a doozy . Not as gory or violent as it could've been , probably due to lack of budget ( . . for a Band production , the film looks great , particularly the underground facility and it's devastated state due to natural and unnatural factors ) , but director JS Cardone is able to build the dread quite nicely due to the fact that the being could be anywhere and mimic certain things ( . . this was perhaps what many believe was ripped from THE THING , I guess , because an animal is used by the being to trick characters ) . Maureen Flaherty and Robbie Rives are the nude test subjects shown frequently in all their glory . Lu Leonard has a funny role as the rather grumpy cook dealing with a rat problem Shivers won't correct due to his procrastination . Hong is entertaining in an all-too-short role as a nervously cautious scientist worried that Hickock might make a discovery that halts the funding of his experiments . The film does feature some questionable decisions by characters who seem to leap before thinking things thru .
There is a German trench occupied by soldiers of the Royal army who have recently " escaped " a brutal battle . Inside the trench , dead German bodies are everywhere caked in mud with knives among other things stabbed in them . It appears that they killed each other . They often hear distant gunfire and explosions yet see no one . A certain German soldier , who can speak French , tells the British accompaniment that they will kill each other like the others . What's even worse than the mental disintegration of nearly each British soldier is that ghoulish entities ( and this barbwire which seems to have a life it's own ) are killing the soldiers . Also , certain soldiers ' personalities and behavior seem to be oddly shifting into madness as they begin to attack each other and grow more and more insane . Will any of these soldiers be able to survive ? And , better still , where are they really ? Jamie Bell , an underage soldier ( . . and rather cowardly ) seems to mature while he watches the others around him fall apart at the seams . It's an unlikely scenario that he'd be the one to try and control what's happening , but that's one of the many good things this eerie little horror item has to offer . The film is startlingly really good as the foreboding within this massive trench seems to last throughout . It has an unpredictability about it ( . . to a point , but I believe we get a general idea of who might survive the trials facing them as a whole ) . There's this ominous grip which never released me and the way the film is photographed inside the muddy trenches with all the corpses , barbwire , and constantly flowing rain . . there's atmosphere aplenty . Even the cast bring a lot . The situation they face brings a claustrophobia and watching these men come apart brings a lot of tension . Then there's the spooky supernatural aspects which work exceedingly well during the nighttime . I will say that many might roll their eyes at the denouement , but overall this was an enjoyable little flick . Time well spent .
A psychiatrist , Sam ( Ewan McGregor ) , tries desperately to keep a patient of his , Henry ( Ryan Gosling ) from committing suicide when he turns 21 . Yet , as Sam continues his mission to try and keep Henry from making that grim decision , reality around him becomes distorted and surreal . People who are supposed to be dead are indeed alive , not to mention many vanish and reappear , or change roles according to either Sam or Henry . For instance , Sam encounters Henry's supposedly dead mother who , in turn , believes he is her son . Henry's mother's dog viciously bites Sam's arm , yet Henry informs him that Olive ( the dog's name ) has been dead for many years . A young woman named Athena ( Elizabeth Reaser ) is one minute some waitress Henry grew attached to , yet the next she's his fiancé . All this occurs as Sam pursues Henry's whereabouts as the young man often returns to him for comfort . Then there's Lila ( Naomi Watts ) , Sam's lover & a painter , who had attempted suicide before , but even she may not be who she seems ( her face often distorts with Athena's creating this whole other weird vibe ) . Even Leon ( Bob Hoskins ) , Sam's blind friend , is claimed by Henry to be his dead father . There's even a scene where Henry and Sam are talking at the same time , saying the same thing . The ultimate image that reflects back to us over and over is a car crash on the Brooklyn Bridge which might be the true answer to all the madness occurring to Sam and Henry . Universally panned by many ( . . and seemed to go through theaters faster than an eye-blink ) , I think it's quite underrated and should be given a chance by fresh eyes . Everything bizarre and unusual that happens on screen can really get frustrating ( like seeing certain faces playing duel characters ) , but if one can hang on until the very end everything gets it's just explanation . The film is certainly mind-bendingly trippy , and Forster's camera is always shaking things up where we can not settle into a comfort zone . I liked it and thought it's puppetering twists from strange scene to strange scene as we follow not only Sam's wild journey for truth , but seeing Henry's abilities to change those around him ( such as giving sight to Leon ) can be a lot of fun . It's a given , though , that many are just not gonna except it on it's own terms and will shut the film off half way saying to hell with it .
Dead-on-Arrival pacing and excessive attempts at unsuccessful humor plague what could've been a very satisfying psychological character study about a serial killer who preys on victims during the Full Moon cutting into their skulls while also cannibalizing them . Lionel Atwill portrays Doctor Xavier . . called on by police to find the killer amongst his staff of colleagues working at his institution . Fay Wray portrays Xavier's daughter , who will be the female in danger , and Lee Tracy is the wisecracking reporter . To snuff out the psychopath , Xavier will gather his scientists together at his château for the next 48 hours ( the police gave him a time-line to find the killer or they would all be under arrest ) . While at times a trial to sit through , director Curtiz is a marvelous artist who frames stunning shots utilizing the two-strip Technicolor and terrific sets to maximum effect . Yet , he can not overcome a very slow-moving plot , Fay Wray's annoying screaming for no reason , Lee Tracy's very dated and boring comic interludes , and hammy overacting . I think the most intriguing and chilling portion of the film come at the end when we are introduced to the killer for the first time when shapes himself as a beast through synthetic flesh .
A day / night in the lives of an eclectic group of characters , who live in a crumbling apartment complex soon to be possibly condemned on Mulberry St , are focused on as a societal collapse is imminent , threatening NYC due to a crisis of infection from wide-spread rodent bites . Manhattan soon is overrun by infected citizens who are slowly transforming into human rodents ! Once the citizens are completely infected by the rat virus , they attack anyone in their path , longing to feast on their flesh . Characters like Clutch ( Nick Damici ) , a former boxer seen often jogging on the streets ( also the one his fellow neighbors in the Mulberry St apartment put their trust in ) , his daughter Casey ( Kim Blair ) , recently returning from a tour in Iraq carrying a facial scar she's self-conscious about , Kay ( Bo Corre ) , a Polish-American single mother who works at a local pub nearby , are just a few the film isolates as the outbreak takes shape . While the influences of Night of the Living Dead ( characters trapped in an apartment complex as infected humans await them outside ) and 28 Days Later . . ( the " giddy-up " rat-humans , shaky cam style and running humans trying to escape as the predators pursue them ) are undeniable , I still found " Mulberry St . " a pulse-pounding thrill-ride . The rat-humans are shot quite the same way as the " rage-infected " human zombies of 28 Days Later ( & 28 Weeks Later ) . . the camera doesn't really completely eyeball them , because they move so fast , in such a frenzied state like wild animals starving for supper , that we don't exactly identify with them . And , once they are on the rampage , our regular working-class heroes are often on the move , or trying to find shelter or weapons to protect themselves . Appropriately grim with a rather downbeat climax as governmental biological teams finally arrive after night closes , with many of the cast members either dead or turned . The shaky-cam will undoubtedly turn some people off ( . . or turn their stomachs ) , but it gives the film an immediacy that I felt keeps the viewer on edge . I can see why director Mickle opted for the shaky-cam technique . . it does give the film a documentarian closeness with those characters focused on . There are shots within the apartment which give " Mulberry St " a claustrophobic dread while outside , there's too much space ( . . and often a deadening silence on desolate streets with rat-humans eating silently , always listening for sounds of fresh meat ) as bodies lie all over the place . Larry Fessenden has a funny cameo as a running civilian who locks the gate on a fellow citizen , later suffering the consequences when he himself needs help . I think " Mulberry St " is a rare film in that the characters , and the actors portraying them , are multi-dimensional .
A surfer stumbles upon a murder at the hands of notorious gangster Eddie Kim and must be protected by FBI agent Samuel L Jackson on board a flight equipped with an army of deadly poisonous snakes , planted there to kill him so that he couldn't testify . Somehow Jackson and the flight attendants must find the means to keep those on board safe and kill the snakes that are threatening their lives , not to mention another unfortunate dilemma facing them . . both pilots are bitten by snakes and someone else will have to land the plane ! A disaster movie with CGI snakes that attack a bunch of folks on board a plane with Sammy L working his usual cool / charisma . You are most certainly confident that he'll find a way to save as many as possible . The snakes bite into a breast nipple , eyeball , penis , throats , buttock , faces , leaving some nasty after-effects such as sores and mouth-foaming . A dog and man are victims of a massive python which wraps around and chokes them before the feeding occurs ( . . the dog's fate isn't elaborated , although the film shows the python swallowing the male victim's head ! ) Fun supporting cast add color to the proceedings . Like in a lot of disaster films , we are introduced to the supporting characters before the perilous situation takes place with the release of the snakes which are ultimately antagonized by the pheromones of leis flowers . Featuring characters that mimic cultural archetypes such as Rachel Blanchard as a Paris Hilton wannabe with a dog , IPOD , and Valley Girl looks ( . . her name is Mercedes ) and rap star Three G's ( Flex Alexander ) who is a cocky germaphobe with attitude . Lin Shaye has a wonderful role as flight attendant on her last tour , Grace ( . . one knows her fate when she mentions how she plans to retire after this one last flight ) . Julianna Margulies is flight attendant Claire , who plans to become a lawyer after this last flight , and is called upon to help Sammy L's agent Neville Flynn , when the going gets rough . Kenan Thompson lends his usual funny expressions to the character of Troy , Three G's entourage and high school chum who looks out for him and is asked to land the plane based solely on his video-game expertise ! The computer generated snakes aren't always that convincing , although that's part of the movie's charm . Fast-paced thrill-ride that aims to please . The absurd premise just draws you in and it's up to the filmmakers to sell such an idea as passengers joining together to find a way out of such a difficult situation through a variety of ways . . you must take a leap of faith when you see Sammy L killing snakes with a taser gun !
The diabolical Chinese architect of doom , Fu Manchu ( Christopher Lee , imposing as ever ) still carrying a devious desire to control mankind across the globe , has orchestrated a new plan to destroy the top military nations ' generals and Commander-in-chiefs who are gathering together in London for a service dedication at St . Paul's church . Through a method using energy ( . . provided through the use of light , heat and power , transmitted by sound waves ) , Fu Manchu needs the cooperation and know-how of the top industrialists and scientists , and in getting that he kidnaps their wives and daughters ( . . they are the " brides " of the title ) , using hypnosis with his incredible mental powers , removing their will and in doing so can command them to do anything he so desires . Fu Manchu's arch nemesis and wily adversary , Scotland Yard Assistant Commissioner Sir Dennis Nayland Smith ( Douglas Wilmer ) , along with pathologist Dr . Petrie ( Howard Marion-Crawford ; Smith's Dr . Watson , you could say ) and Parisian Inspector Pierre Grimaldi ( Roger Hanin ) , must discover his plans and stop him before the cunning mastermind is able to remove the great military leaders which help to keep our world's countries safe . The film has three basic settings . London where Fu Manchu has dacoit soldiers attempting to kidnap Marie Lentz ( Marie Versini ) , the daughter of a great scientist needed to assist the madman in equipping his machines with the proper settings to bomb major cities . Marie's fiancé , German research chemist Franz Baumer ( Heinz Drache ) , helps Smith and company in their efforts to find Fu Manchu's headquarters , buried underground in the foothills of a specific French mountainside . The film often shows the trapped women imprisoned in Fu Manchu's headquarters , and slave Abdul ( Salmaan Peerzada ) who plans to save them . A certain industrialist , Jules Merlin ( Rupert Davies ) , is chosen for his expertise in building little wireless sets which enable Fu Manchu's henchman to set up their operations in small locations . The film shows Merlin's daughter Michel ( Carole Gray ) imprisoned which motivates him to do what Fu Manchu asks . When Marie is finally kidnapped in a well orchestrated siege in an opera house , she will coordinate an escape plan with Michel . Baumer will also infiltrate the headquarters posing as his fiancé's father . The film also has scenes in Paris where Merlin's business is centered . Marie doesn't know that her best friend , Nikki Sheldon ( Harald Leipnitz ) is actually working for Fu Manchu and assists in having her captured at the opera house . Fu Manchu's corrupt organization is under the disguise of Wireless International . Showing his capabilities , Fu Manchu destroys a cruise ship , The Windsor Castle , which will prompt Smith to move faster in stopping him before he's able to carry out his ultimate plan . Using Marie's father , Otto Lentz ( Joseph Fürst ) expertise , they will hatch a plan to use a stronger signal to counteract Manchu's with the lives of many important figures ' lying in the balance . Plot-heavy , exciting , fast-paced fun with a great cast and dangerous situations creating an exhausting thrill-ride with Lee in great form even though he doesn't even attempt to sound Chinese . Wilmer is effective at portraying Fu Manchu's adversary ; he presents the commissioner as fast-thinking , wise , and courageous . Smith has to have certain attributes if he's able to somehow defeat a villain such as Fu Manchu , with lives at stake . I think Wilmer is convincing , selling his Smith as someone we can count on to catch the terrorists out to cause chaos and global mischief . There are some thrilling set-pieces , such as the opera house kidnapping , the fight that breaks out between the " brides " and Fu Manchu's dacoit soldiers , and an attempt at hi-jacking Marie in her hospital of employment . We get to see Baumer beat the hell out of Fu Manchu's men and the destruction of the Windsor Castle ship as Smith and his men failed in saving those killed is quite a stunner . Unfortunately , Fu Manchu's headquarters inside the foothills look like cheap sets ( . . it's clear , I believe , that producer Towers desires to mimic Hammer ) , but that did very little to distract me from the perilous situation the madman was creating for our heroes . There's so much going on , you have little time to catch your breath . Director Don Sharp once again shows his skills at creating a lot with little , crafting a nice adventure out of the money producer Harry Allan Towers was able to give him . Rounding out a solid cast includes Tsai Chin as Fu Manchu's daughter Lin Tang , ever supportive and willing to obey . Burt Kwouk ( the Pink Panther movies ) is Feng , Fu Manchu's top scientist who is leader over the mechanical operations functioning the energy sent to destroy targets at his boss ' command . It's great to actually see Asians portraying Fu Manchu's Chinese soldiers .
Prussic gas , a murderer donning a red clansman suit and hood wielding a white whip , and the murders of college school girls at the hands of paid convicts enlisted by a mysterious mastermind who keeps his face hidden within an office containing aquariums of turtles and fish . The inspectors at Scotland Yard , Higgins ( IJoachim Fuchsberger ) and his superior Sir John ( Siegfried Schürenberg ) certainly have their hands full with this case . It all seems to center around student Ann Portland ( Uschi Glas ) , who , when she turns 21 , is to inherit a great deal of wealth . The girls who are targeted share a room with Ann , but the reason for their murders remains a mystery SY's finest must figure out . The staff of the girls ' dormitory all seem to be hiding something and certain members of the faculty are falling prey to the killer in the red monk robe disguise , talented enough to precisely strangle the necks of those attacked with the whip . Two prisoners are commissioned by a mystery man to use the newly created toxic gas created by a scientist murdered at the beginning of the film during what was supposed to be a monetary exchange for his creation . It's a clever scheme where a driver , Greaves ( Günter Meisner ) meets the convicts ( . . who hide in a barrel ) who are assisted by a corrupt prison guard . Taken blindfolded to the secret room of the mastermind , he gives them orders on who to kill and how . Uncovering this operation is a top priority for Higgins and Sir John for it will lead them to the truth they seek in regards to the murders and why they are happening . Under suspicion are girls ' dormitory headmistress , her author brother , a sweaty , incredibly nervous chemistry teacher , a snooping gardener , and the Bannister . Some are red herrings until they are disposed of , throwing the viewer for a loop each time until the real mastermind is discovered . The ending features multiple twists . Out of the Krimi films I've seen , THE COLLEGE GIRL MURDERS is the closest to a giallo with it's colorful killer , a convoluted plot yielding lots of surprises and potential suspects , & sordid shenanigans between adults and the college girls at the dormitory . I think you can also see the influence of James Bond on this particular Krimi film with the villain mastermind's secret hideout with an alligator pit ( . . which isn't used ) , the fake bible / water pistol , when opened , fires the gas into the face of startled victims , the Greaves ' Royles Royce which has latches that cause flaps to darken the windows without revealing the passenger in the back seat , and the peep holes used to spy on the girls in their rooms and while swimming . Many might consider Sir John a liability due to his bumbling , buffoonish behavior and how he often undermines Higgins ' abilities to get at the truth ( . . perhaps poking fun at know-it-all British inspectors who harm a case more than solve it ) . . I felt he was used as comedy relief , particularly with his attempts at psychoanalyzing suspects and potential victims , often misunderstanding what are told to him . Higgins , using the skills adopted over his years as an investigator , instead follows the clues / facts , often avoiding Sir John as much as possible . Capable direction by the reliable Alfred Vohrer who keeps the pace humming at a nice speed , and the screenplay is full of interesting characters and lurid content . . the fact that so many of the adults surrounding the dormitory are suspect , any of them might be the one wielding the whip or calling the shots behind those murdered girls ' executions . I'd say this may be one of the best ( . . if not the best ) examples of the Krimi genre , for it keeps you guessing , always one more ace up it's sleeve . . the revelations unearthed at the very end are quite eye-opening ( . . and , you even get a literal unmasking of the real mastermind pulling the strings to top it all off ) .
Naive , young , gentle-hearted , beautiful French model , Ann-Marie Di Verney ( Penny Irving ) is drawn to a dark and mysterious " writer " , Mark E Desade ( Robert Tayman ) after meeting him at a party , later ( . . after a date ) agreeing to meet his mother outside of London , despite knowing little about him . Ann-Marie's pal and roommate , Julia ( Ann Michelle ) doesn't like the idea of leaving with a man she has just met and these worries come to fruition when Mark takes her to an abandoned institution which works as a cover for a hostile prison for " immoral girls not fit for society who must be punished into submission " . Mark's mother , Mrs Wakehurst ( Barbara Markham ) was once a prison governess who lost her job after her aggressive torturous methods towards a French inmate ended in death . The elderly , blind Justice Bailey ( Patrick Barr ) , whose mind is slipping into senility , once holding a prominent position , is now operating as the secret prison judge , having left his wife for Wakehurst after getting her off for her previous misdeeds regarding the murder of the girl ( . . the penalty being the loss of her license , and the source of her deep rooted , and thriving bitterness and hatred for " loose women " ) . Their marriage has worsened substantially over the years , and we discover that Mark is their illegitimate son ( . . there are also disturbing incestual undertones eluded to later on ) Forced against her will into an illegal imprisonment , Ann-Marie notices other girls that have met these particular circumstances as well . . it seems Mark's job is to lure women to this place so that they can be tried and convicted in some sort of bogus sentencing , a ceremony so ridiculous ( . . Wakehurst must now inform of her husband of the lines he's supposed to say due to his forgetfulness ) it borders on parody . You can only imagine how shocking and surreal such a situation can be . Told not to speak unless spoken to , given very little to eat , and a penalty system for bad behavior ( # 1 : Solitary confinement , # 2 : A flogging , & # 3 : Death by hanging ) , Ann-Marie will have to figure out some way to escape or else face the dire consequences of her current predicament . Working with fellow prisoners who have had enough of their cruel mistreatment at the hands of Wakehurst and her unpleasant guards , Walker ( Sheila Keith ) and Bates ( Dorothy Gordon ) , Ann-Marie will attempt to break free from the harsh confinements of such a bleak and unfriendly environment . Meanwhile , Julia confides in her lover , Tony ( Ray Brooks ) regarding Ann-Marie's whereabouts setting out to find her if she can , attempting to discover just who Mark is and his location . Appropriately grim women-in-prison film throwing a young lamb into a den of wolves . Barbara Markham is quite impressive as the diabolical ( . . with homicidal tendencies and a yearning to see the pretty deteriorate ) warden who hides behind this cloak of morality , wielding her power as if chosen by God to reform those deemed unfit to exist , when in reality she enjoys making girls suffer . The unbridled sadism , buried underneath this cold and calculating execution by the warden and her staff , really has you pitying poor Ann-Marie , who really is a sweet-hearted teenage girl who isn't ashamed of her body . Penny Irving positively glows in the opening scenes , a very vulnerable , somewhat bubbly girl whose modeling career is seen as a blight on society ( . . Walker obviously wishes to , along with writer David McGillivray , create a film exposing authoritarian types who use their power and code of ethics as a tool to discriminate , as the hypocrites they are ) by certain people who really wish to punish and harm because of the thrills that such methods provides . Sheila Keith is particularly memorable as Walker , an obvious lesbian who harbours a lust for Ann-Marie , but hates her at the same time for the type she represents . Through facial movements and specific gestures , Sheila Keith is also able to show her attraction to Ann-Marie , but , at the same time , we see the conflicting repulsion that soon overcomes her . It's a very convincing performance that can elicit chills . The film doesn't actually dwell too much on the whip flogging , although Walker establishes the potency of it's use very well showing whelps and bruises on those victimized . There's a certain hopelessness that permeates throughout Walker's film for Ann-Marie as she is constantly on the verge of escape only to be ensnared right back into the snake pit by unforeseen circumstances . Thanks to cinematographer Peter Jessop's lighting and the miserable aura of the institution setting , Wakehurst's prison is quite a morose and unforgiving place and you can do nothing but feel for those trapped within it's cells . Walker really wishes to keep the indelible image of the hangman's noose in our minds , knowing that this method of execution has been used ( . . we witness a prisoner sentenced to hanging for attempting to steal a piece of bread , and the failed operation to sneak her away from the death chamber ) before and could be Ann-Marie's fate if Wakehurst has anything to say about it . Walker alternates between Ann-Marie's plight and Julia in London growing more concerned about her friend's condition and reasons for not communicating somehow . It's a form of manipulation , of course , allowing the framework to advance regarding Julia being Ann-Marie's only hope ( . . another form of manipulation is Walker establishing Ann-Marie's potential getaway thanks to a truck driver nearby the Wakehurst estate ) . Stanley Myers score exceptionally conveys the mood of the film's plot all too well . Robert Tayman has quite a malevolent presence , despite his handsome allure which draws women like Ann-Marie to their doom . Jessop has a way of lighting Tayman that gives off a sinister intent , and you can just sense that this poor girl , under his spell , is like a fly caught in the spider's web . Penny Irving is quite uninhibited in this film , not afraid to show her gorgeous naked body , including a rather uncomfortable disrobing scene where she's forced to remove her clothes by Walker and Bates before being taken to her cell .
Yumi's friends are dying in bizarre ways to what seems to be a supernatural vengeful ghost who forewarns her prey by sending them a ring-tone playing a specific tune . Following that tune is the final words spoken from each chosen victim's mouth before they die . On their phones , is a set date and time in the future when they will perish . Yumi ( Kou Shibasaki ) joins forces with Hiroshi Yamashita ( Shin'ichi Tsutsumi ) , whose sister was a chosen victim who died from terrible burns . Their journey to find out who is responsible for the abnormal murdering spree leads to a family with possible abuse involved . There's an important sub-plot featuring Yumi's harsh up-bringing that might be an essential aspect in the grand scheme of things . One major question is obvious . . why are these certain victims chosen ? Why would a ghost go out of her way to kill these people randomly ? The film seems like a standard , modern Asian horror flick using technology as a means for ghouls to travel so they can inflict bodily harm to their chosen victims , if you go by the premise alone . But , Miike does get a chance to imbue his warped sense of humor within the plot as Yumi's final college chum , Natsumi ( Kazue Fukiishi ) is exploited by a television show for ratings as the world watches with bated breath if she'll die in the studio across the airwaves as a monk tries to exorcise her from the monster pursuing her . And , the final thirty minutes toys with us as it shifts from one proposed ending to another . To be honest , the supposed climax in the old abandoned hospital , quite darkly lit , where we think Yumi is finally encountering the ghostly killer claiming her life is next , is solidly eerie . I think , for the most part , this is a professionally made , well-executed , slow-burn creeper . Rather level-headed ( . . but , still with quite a few WTF ? sequences to keep us on our toes ) , if a bit overlong . I think there's a good 90 minute movie here , but I do still think it's worthwhile even it's not Miike at his best . I'm afraid , this film's air of familiarity will hurt it somewhat .
Edgar Allen Poe ( Jeffrey Combs , a bit hammy but still entertaining ) is really struggling to find the inspiration to write another tale of the fantastic as his darling wife Virginia is slowly dying from tuberculosis ( " The White Plague " ) and his damn cat Pluto seems to be more irritating than usual . Living in poverty and drinking heavily , Poe is sliding into an abyss of sadness and depression . Virginia wishes to sell her beloved piano and Edgar returns from another round of gobbling booze so the idea of talking finances seems moot . A visitor , hoping to purchase their piano , is witness , along with drunken Edgar , to Virginia's beautiful playing only to see the horror of her throat's blood vessel bursting resulting in lots of splatter . Blood all over the piano and floor as Pluto drinks a little from a puddle . Very soon , Virginia can no longer stand very long and is practically bedridden . But , they are so poor ( . . and Edgar makes so little for his work during this period ) and burdened with debt that their doctor will no longer invest in the welfare of her condition . With his wife at death's door and a creative drought lasting endlessly , Edgar is slowly growing mad and Pluto the cat just won't keep away from the pet goldfish and canary . He even claims that the cat is " killing " Virginia as Edgar spots it around her face when he walks into the bedroom . Soon she's passed on and he is at the point of no return . . blaming the poor cat , Edgar cuts out his eyeball and eventually hangs him . Yep , cat lovers may wish to look elsewhere for their entertainment . With no money to properly bury his beloved , Edgar decides to leave her casket open while burning down the home they lived in . . while Pluto hangs from the neck in death . Little does he know that Virginia actually awakens from the dead and Edgar carries her from the flaming house to live elsewhere . Yet , he will be haunted by the sound of a cat and the shadows of the feline loom around him . Stuart Gordon presents a stunning looking film which might appeal to gorehounds and B & W Gothic horror fans alike . One image seems directly inspired by Tourneur's " Cat People " as a frightened Edgar walks hurriedly from a bar he just got thrown out of as a large panther-like shadow follows him across the stone walls of buildings . There's a nasty " head-splitting " scene where an unfortunate victim stands in the way for Pluto as Edgar lunges an ax directly into said person's face dicing the skull . The blood-vessel burst is a nasty bit of business as Stuart has sprays and gobs of the thick red stuff landing on the camera and piano keys . It's clear Stuart had to add a little black humor within the sad scene as the cat drinks from a blood puddle as if it were milk . The effects are amazingly accomplished on such a tight budget using both make-up effects and computer generated work . I watched the behind-the-scenes documents on the making of the short film from the Masters of Horror brand and the creation of the special effects and make-up . Combs looks very similar to Poe . My only real problem is the dialogue which seems rather modern , but I dealt with it okay , I guess . I think Gothic horror fans would fall in love with Stuart's use of black and white photography , splicing bits of color within . The setting , I felt , was pretty accurate for that time period considering the smallish budget this kind of production has . I am kind of curious if the twist at the end will work for many . . I kind of thought it works as a presentation of a troubled artist finding inspiration through a bout of dementia .
A trio of sadistic psychopaths escape from the law , retreating to the hooker ranch of a relative pimp , as a determined , hostile sheriff ( . . out to avenge his slain cop brother , a victim of theirs ) is out to find them , with wicked plans to make the group suffer in store . Rob Zombie's mosaic of 70's Grindhouse amidst a western motif , features a gallery of unpleasant characters , committing horrendous acts towards innocent people . It's simple . . if you do not have the willingness to operate on the same level as the evil hoodlums you are pursuing , then you're dead . The Firefly clan have no moral constraints or are they bound by the laws of appropriate decency . . they love terrorizing the weak-willed and positively embrace wickedness of all types . Obviously modeled somewhat after the Manson family , The Firefly clan thumb their nose at conventional behavior , in favor of raising as much hell as humanly possible . Kidnapping , sexual molestation , mind games , torture , and murder . . the Firefly family have no qualms in harming and brutalizing those with the misfortune of entering their orbit . Zombie produces an adversary in Sheriff Sheriff John Quincy Wydell ( . . played with intensity and ferocity by William Forsythe , in perhaps his finest role to date ) who goes beyond the law in order to apprehend and inflict his own brand of justice against these fiends . It's clear that Zombie wants to produce a subtext in this war . . is Wydell any different than those he's hunting ? I think this film really goes into a dark place despite the black humor , where we watch a man , hired by his citizens to uphold the law , progressively going mad , believing he is God's " arm of vengeance " , willing to hire vicious bounty hunters ( . . portrayed by pro-wrestler Diamond Dallas Page and Danny Trejo , who call themselves the " Unholy Two " , I call them the " White Trash Duo " ) to find them for him . You know , Zombie doesn't let either the Firfly Trio or Wydell off the hook . We witness Otis and Baby ( Bill Moseley & Sheri Moon Zombie ) hold a traveling blue-grass group hostage at gun point , slowly terrorizing them in various ways before disposing of them . So Rob exposes in detail their willingness to hurt others , absolutely enjoying their handiwork . This film has Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) in on the action this time , as the three gather at the western whorehouse town of his " brother from another mother " , Charlie Altamont ( Ken Foree ) . Zombie's style of the film has lots of action shot from several perspectives and the camera-work is never still . . the film is always moving , with Rob insisting on a documentary kind of feel ( . . He even hired a documentary cinematographer , Phil Pharmet of HARLIN COUNTY USA fame ) placing the viewer right into the center of the action as the tale of the criminals and their hunter unfolds . Those that decide to commit crime pay a hefty price , even if Zombie's film likes to paint a heroic picture of the Firefly clan , unabashed serial killers lovingly cruel , doing so for kicks and giggles . They even get to go out to the beautiful ballad of FREEBIRD . . very much outlaws going out on their own terms , not Wydell's . But , just like we watched Otis and Baby prey upon the family of Banjo and Sullivan , Wydell gets his chance to make them suffer as well . Neither brutal attack is fun to watch , both , at times , explicit in violence , performed with relish and damaging intent . I remember having a hard time sitting through the attack on Roy Sullivan ( Geoffrey Lewis ) , his wife Gloria ( Priscilla Barnes ) , Adam Banjo ( Lew Temple ) , his wife Wendy ( Kate Norby ) and their roadie , Jimmy ( Brian Posehn ) with Otis and Baby often deriding them waving their guns around , ordering them around , using threats as an advantage , controlling their every move thanks to possessing weapons . I must say that Norby and Barnes are real troopers for allowing such awful things to take place to their characters , willing to subject themselves to offensive acts committed by Otis towards them . There are times , such as when the camera shoots from the ground into Otis ' face as he prepares to crush Roy's skull with a large stick , that he looks exactly like a young Charles Manson . . makes the scene even more powerful and creepy , particularly when he proclaims he's the Devil , doing the Devil's work . Actually , Zombie shows less violence than you realize , effectively using sound effects as the camera moves around the acts themselves ( . . such as when Wydell uses a stapler one Otis and Baby , puncturing pictures of victims to their chests or when he jabs Spaudling with a cattle prod ) . There are some effective uses of the camera capturing poor Wendy attempting to escape one time , another running around , completely insane seeking help , wearing her husband's facial " skin mask " that echoes THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE ( . . Marlyn Burns running in terror as Leatherface follows with his chainsaw ) , finding herself in the middle of the road as a semi hits her head on . Superb soundtrack impressively accompanies the movie , adding a little extra to Zombie's intentions of presenting us a realistic 70's atmosphere . His influences , like in his first film , are present for us to see . . Zombie doesn't hide from the fact that certain kinds of directors ' works inspired him and that is ever present in THE DEVIL'S REJECTS . Hiliarious scene where Wydell is enraged by a Groucho Marx-loving movie critic who makes derogatory remarks about The King . . and the " chicken f # cking " scene where a furious Michael Berryman ( . . as Charlie's employee ) gets all tore up about a poultry farmer's insults towards his possibly humping a chicken , due to his " sexually frustrated looks . " The cast seem to be enjoying themselves , but the subject matter can be quite grueling and disturbing at times , especially if the viewer ( s ) isn't in the right state of mind .
A fishing village comes under attack by amphibious humanoid monsters who have evolved thanks to scientific experimentation in the size growth of aquatic life . A creature feature taken to the extreme . . bloody mayhem and graphic violence are on display . The sleaze quotient is high in that the monsters wish to mate with the female population , ripping their clothes as they sexually molest them in a grim manner . The carnage that ensues in the climactic attack by the monsters on the happy community attending their annual festival is a gorefest . This film is not for the faint of heart , but is a special treat for those who love their films bloody with lots of skin ripping , blood squirting , and the aftermath of poor victims who are torn to shreds . The ending , showing one of the poor girl's who was impregnated , packs a punch . Vic Morrow portrays Hank , an important man in the village who voices loudly his approval of a new cannery coming into the town brining jobs and employment . With fishing becoming a hardship ( the running irony is that these monsters are in fact eating the fish ) their village needs an economic boost . Anthony Pena portrays Hank's Native American rival Johnny Eagle who wishes for the cannery to stay away from the land of his people . Ann Turkel is Dr . Susan Drake , a scientist who knows about the escaped experimental , evolving aquatic life that are killing , raping & maiming . Doug McClure portrays the film's blue-collar hero , fisherman Jim Hill , whose wife , Carol ( the lovely Cindy Weintraub ) unfortunately has to face off with two of those things while her hubby is trying to defend his town against those monsters during the festival attack . The monsters , even if rubber-suited , are scary and effective .
Demented debut from rocker Rob Zombie features a family of backwoods deranged psychos preying upon four teenagers who are in search of a notorious serial killer known as Dr . Satan . Filmed at Universal Studios , Zombie was allowed access to footage and props from their great classics such as CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON , THE WOLF MAN , THE OLD DARK HOUSE , and even THE MUNSTERS . Problems Zombie faced were more than the pleasures of attaining the sets or production values , as camera operators came and went , & studio suits ( . . asking for cuts upon cuts , never quite pleased with what they were seeing , eventually shelving the film altogether before selling the property back to Zombie , with the film being distributed by LIONSGATE ) played a part in his film's disjointed , often uneven presentation . Admitting to interspersing shot footage on a video camera , Zombie really creates quite an odd experience , with plenty of sadistic displays by the Firefly clan towards their victims . The film takes place during Halloween Eve and Night , adding a great deal to the overall look of the film ( . . lots of pumpkins and costumes ) . Zombie effectively uses neon and candlelight giving his family of weirdos an alluring setting to commit their variety of sick activities . One victim is turned into an art piece , " Fishboy " , kidnapped cheerleaders are subjected to torture , victims dressed in bunny suits are tormented psychologically by their captors , with two of them eventually lowered into an underground cavern where muddy ghouls live along with other freaks of nature ( . . along with Dr . Satan who operates on victims , opening up one's skull , using a drill , and the " Professor " , with goggles , a horribly disfigured face with a mouth that releases mucus of some sort , chasing after a victim with an ax ) . The first portion of the film shows the four traveling teenagers meeting up with Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) , a vulgar , pot-bellied clown who operates a gas station / murder museum , featuring collectibles you can buy along with displays of all sorts of unusual things ( . . and pictures ) . Spaulding even has a tour ride for visitors regarding wax museum mannequins depicting various notorious serial killers . Soon they desire to see Dr . Satan , with Spaulding sending them to the freakshow that is Mother Firefly ( Karen Black ) , her daughter Baby ( Sheri Moon Zombie ) , twisted albino son " artist " Otis ( Bill Moseley ) , massive mute auto mechanic Rufus RJ ( Robert Allen Mukes ) , belligerent and loud Papa ( Dennis Fimple ) , and the burnt subservient titan , Tiny ( Matthew McGrory ) . This gallery of the bizarre and grotesque are given star treatment while the " normal " kids don't help their situation any by fueling their " hosts " disdain through obnoxious behavior , goading them ( . . specifically the girls who often curse or berate Baby and Mother who flirt with their boyfriends ) by often antagonizing when they should leave well enough alone . Moseley has quite a powerful , if unpleasant , presence as Otis , quite confrontational and unrestrained while Baby enjoys carnage , gleefully cheering during their attacks on victims . Once the film moves away from the house , chock full of odds and ends like a junkyard untended , into the dark and sinister underground cavern ( . . and above ground where a cemetery is present ) the film shifts in tone completely , as Denise ( Erin Daniels ) , the remaining member of her friends , runs for her life from the Professor through a hall lined with corpses . . cobwebs and lights are ever present as Denise attempts to save her skin not knowing what lies in wait . Her situation looks hopeless . The film features Zombie's music and some really strange nightmare sequences , often either tinted in bright colors or sepia tones . Certainly , you can sense just how much a fan of horror Zombie is as his influences are quite visible . Prepare to be bombarded by lots of peculiar images and characterizations . The cult following doesn't surprise me because HOUSE OF 1000 CORPSES has enough unusual qualities to appeal to the Midnight Movie crowd . Lots of in-jokes such as the shirt ( . . and Halloween costume ) Tiny wears , not to mention his cereal ( . . also , you'll notice a grisly skinning scene where Otis wears a victim's face ) and wicked humor that will not appeal to all tastes . Tom Towles and Wolton Goggins star as country cops out to investigate the Firefly's residence finding themselves unwelcome . Great supporting star treatment for Karen Black as the loony mother of the clan . Almost everyone in the film has filthy dental care . A superb star vehicle for scene-stealing Sid Haig , provided with a role that might well define his career , later even enhancing it more in THE DEVIL'S REJECTS . Baby's giggles might induce either chills or aggravation , considering what she finds funny . Definite highlight for Sheri Moon would have to be Baby's stage show to a Betty Boop song . . her performance can be ( . . purposely ? ) irritating / grating .
This time a sought after Borgia Pearl is the object of desire , worth snapping the lumbar vertebrae of many unfortunate victims ' backs at the hands of the sinister Creeper ( Rondo Hatton ) , working for a lecherous thief , the devilish , elusive Giles Conover ( Miles Mander ) . Sherlock Holmes and Dr . Watson are out to discover why innocent people are found dead , their china dishes broken all over the crime scenes . A Borgia Pearl was stolen by Conover in a daring heist actually caused when Holmes himself proved to the museum curator that his security system was flawed , inadvertently assisting the conniving con artist who almost got away with it . Conover had to get rid of the pearl temporarily and Holmes & Watson soon discover that it was hidden in one of six plaster busts of Napoleon . . it's essential that Holmes get to the bust containing the pearl before Conover and The Creeper do , or else another victim might be targeted . Of course , Holmes must contend with Scotland Yard's Inspector Lastrade ( Dennis Hoey ) , who is assigned to the rash of serial killings , having to tolerate his temperament and obtrusive attitude . Along the way , Holmes ' life is in danger because he poses a threat to Conover's plans . Universal Studio's regular Evelyn Ankers has a substantial supporting role as Conover's lovely partner-in-crime , Naomi Drake , who uses aliases and disguises to secure information for her protégé . Hatton's The Creeper is quite an effectively spooky villain , barely seen but quite established thanks to director Roy William Neill's superb methods of building his presence until his reveal late into the film . Rathbone is more intense in this film , because of his treatment by authoritative figures and the press who blame him personally for the loss of the pearl , and Bruce's lovable Watson almost gets his best friend killed when Conover attempts to kill the Baker Street sleuth with a book containing a springing dagger . Mander , as Conover , has a very wily villain which contends with Moriarty as one of Holmes ' more despicable and challenging foes . The Universal Studios production values add immensely to the beautiful look of the film and this cast couldn't be much better . Macabre plot , to boot .
A young couple meet at a wedding party and decide to try a date . It starts out as frolicking on the grounds of an old train station as flirting commences . They decide to have a small picnic inside a cemetery and are so drawn to each other sexually , that the couple will seek out a warm spot to make love . . that being an underground crypt ( . . yes , certainly a bit morbid , but just wait until the next place they find for a make-out session ) . As night is upon them , the path leading to the opening gate seems lost in the dark , and our couple can not seem to find an escape route . Their relationship begins to unravel before it has a chance to grow . The young woman , in the opening of the film , found a peculiar iron rose in the ocean of a beach . This rose she feels will guide her to a place of love and happiness . The young female lead of this picture , the longer she remains in the cemetery , grows more and more mad as her newly required male lover becomes a victim of her lunacy . Through poetic rhyme , we get a glimpse into her shattering psyche and her male counterpart will become swallowed whole by it . . his fate is determined when she holds this idea that the outside world is dead and the only true life is within the grave with those who have long since died . Yep , she's bonkers . A love affair between the young female and the cemetery blossoms as we watch her orchestrate balletic movement throughout the grounds , embracing death now fully conceived as the only true way towards happiness . Now , I do realize a film such as this will certainly frustrate many , but I found it stunning . While the plot is simple , I felt Rollin's goal was to embrace the macabre atmosphere of the cemetery in every way possible . To be honest , I can't think of a better location to set a horror film than in a graveyard with those ancient tombstones , dying railings , rusty gates that screech and moan , & deteriorating crucifixes lining the grounds as masses of shrubbery and night invade and engulf . Rollin's camera lovingly captures the female actress in shots around angel statues that have seen better days , holding skulls , gently caressing her iron rose , and dancing in a state of bliss throughout the cemetery . . even when she's lost to insanity , her beauty glistens . Some haunting dream-like shots of the cemetery as dawn begins to appear , the ocean with the naked female lead and her rose , etc . The most morbid and wild scene in the film , I believe , is the one where the couple make out in a burial pit of scattered skulls and bones , the male lead fell into while trying , in a state of panic , to find his way out . Rollin introduces the creepy make-out session with a counterclockwise camera spin pointedly at a dazed male lead trying to gather his wits as the female lead looks down at him . She dives in , they clutch each other , and begin to embrace as skulls and bones move about behind them . . it's really a scene that goes beyond the realm of normal behavior . Various interlopers walking the grounds during the daytime ( each a little wink from Rollin such as the sad clown dragging his flowers toward the grave of a loved one or a familiar vampire barely glimpsed entering a crypt ) add some bonus oddness to this Gothic extravaganza . Either you love it or hate it . . I doubt there'll be much middle ground .
The lives of boys during a tumultuous time in their country of Spain during a civil war at a little schoolhouse miles away from any form of civilization are effected by Jacinto ( Eduardo Noriega ) who desires gold bars hidden in a safe within a kitchen . Jacinto , sometime in his life , lost any humanity as this obsession for those gold bars took over . He's also the reason behind a quiet tragedy deemed a runaway by the adult radicals ( communists , they call each other reds and take in children whose parents were killed or abandoned as war ravaged the land ) whose ghost haunts a specific room containing a dirty pool . That ghost is nicknamed , " the one who sighs " and one new arrival , brought to the school by someone who was tutoring him but has to go back to war , named Carlos ( Fernando Tielve ) sees him and talks with him . There's a reason this child named Santi has remained between this realm and the next and that is for revenge . Carlos can be the guide for Santi . Jaime ( Íñigo Garcés ) is a young artist who was friends with Santi and saw the whole terrible ordeal take place . But , that tragedy isn't even close compared to what Jacinto will ultimately do to get his bars of gold . The school / orphanage is ran by two radicals / liberals named Casares ( Federico Luppi ) and Carmen ( Marisa Paredes ) . Both are always on edge wondering if those who execute commies will ever find out two other reds are nearby . Ultimately , the violence that erupts and sadly effects the lives of innocents is solely blamed on Jacinto's gold lust . Sometimes ghosts have a way of returning the favor , however , and soon enough Jacinto will reap what he has sown . Beautifully conceived and gripping film from the talented visual stylist director Guillermo de Toro . He's able to communicate the horrors of war and poverty as it effects others , especially children . . this is truly at the heart of this film . It uses the ghost story elements to draw you in , but this is about the sad state of affairs that often yield from a land destroyed by greed and death . We see the ones effected here . Jacinto is the adult example of a child losing his way and only seeing gold bars as his means for escaping his melancholy . How that desperation effects those around him is shown to us vividly .
" The Queen of the Night will bear you up on her dark wings . " I guess you can look at " Vampyros lesbos " as director Jesús Franco's 70's modern variation on Bram Stoker's Dracula using Soledad Miranda as the seductive female lesbian vampire who took lessons from her master ( . . that being Count Dracula ) in capturing victims through a form of hypnotic lust , invading women through their dreams . You could say that Ewa Strömberg's Linda , an agent whose firm , Simpson & Simpson , is handling Dracula's will which would entitle that his inheritance of the Kadidados islands ( . . and everything on it ) be left to her , is Mina , the object for which Carody desires to " initiate into her inner circle . " Andrés Monales , as Linda's lover Omar , would be the Jonathan Harker , the one who stands between Carody and her paramour . There really isn't a strong candidate for Van Helsing . . it seems like Dennis Price , as scientist Dr . Alwin Seward , who runs a clinic and studies vampirism , would be , but he harbours a desire to be a vampire himself so he could obtain supernatural powers . Within Seward's clinic is Agra ( Heidrun Kussin ) , who is the Renfield of the film , except instead of madness , she's more overcome by a state of constant orgasm , wantonly desiring to return to Carody , locked up in Seward's clinic . Her husband is Memmet ( . . portrayed by the director in one of his typically bizarre roles ) , who works at a hotel which charters a small boat to ferry people to Carody's island . Memmet is actually a psychotic torturer ( . . who likes to sucker females into the hotel wine cellar where he binds them before the nasty business ) whose madness derives from the fact that Carody " changed " his wife into a lunatic only yearning for her touch . Paul Muller is given , frankly , a thankless role as Linda's psychiatrist who believes her rantings of being haunted by fantasies of Carody is merely bad sex . Carody's relationship to Dracula , subtly mentioned here and there in the film , comes from an incident near a castle she lived overcome by depravity and violence . Men were ravaging the village women , attempting to rape her ( . . this also provides the emphasis on why she hates men ) , dragging her from her castle . . Dracula killing the man on top of her , subsequently " adopting " Carody into his family . Carody mentions how she was the woman who made his life worth living and that he always desired her body , taking just enough blood he needed to survive finally turning her into a vampire . The Turkish locations are definitely highlighted in this film as Franco's camera embraces various aspects of his setting . But , the pleasure for me is Soledad Miranda . The many ways Franco shoots her , the character is all hers . Of her short few lead roles , I think this , " She Killed in Ecstasy " & " Eugenie de Sade " each display her hold on the viewer . Whether it be her very unusual stage act where she dresses a " human mannequin " for an audience before biting her assistant's neck , the way her face is lit , or the abstract camera angles ; it seems Franco wants you to see her as a very special creature , not meant for our world . Whether she's naked , in a bikini , or wearing lingerie on stage , Miranda is a showcase for our viewing pleasure . She's a dark-eyed goddess to me , a portrait on celluloid . I would definitely say Miranda's iconic accessory for this particular film is her red scarf . It's around her neck almost always . José Martínez Blanco is Carody's henchman Morpho , with dead eyes which stare right through you . The score only heightens the otherworldly nature Franco's direction brings to this fantasy . It's a vampire film , but I felt it embraces the erotic side rather than the violence often elaborated in Dracula adaptations . Sure , Carody's bites , but I think this is more about her seduction and entrapment over female victims she desires than the relishing bite on the jugular for flowing blood . I think the ultimate nourishment for a vampire like Carody is capturing the heart and soul of her victim , not their lifeforce .
Spielbergian flick that'll make your skin crawl . Not for those who get the creeps from the appearance of spiders , they are shot in practically every way imaginable by director Frank Marshall and his cunning cinematographer Mikael Salomon ( . . and I just LOVE the aerial camera-work shot from above ) . . they utilize lots of methods capturing the creeping crawlies and the victims they draw near . With a game cast who provide spirited performances , and this willingness to give the audience the heebie jeebies , ARACHNOPHOBIA is such a thrilling experience . It's really an old fashioned B-movie , with a polished and sophisticated look , well produced ( . . the funding alone for Venezuala must've cost a fortune ) , with the opening in the jungle , fabulous and really spooky because of the dreaded idea of coming in contact with hidden spiders yet discovered by man , really establishing the kind of dangerous spider our heroes would be up against . Daniels is perfectly cast as a city doctor , Ross Jennings , moving his family away from San Francisco hoping for a more peaceful existence in rural America . What he doesn't expect is a massive Tarantula ( . . which traveled from Venezuala inside the wooden casket of a local photographer bitten by the spider , killing him ) creating a breed of offspring with a domestic spider . The offspring set off to intrude upon unknowing locals around the area of Jennings ' home , biting unfortunates who have no idea that spiders are among them . Jennings will enlist the aid of spider specialists , James Atherton ( Julian Sands ) and his partner Chris Collins ( Brian McNamara ) to help solve the problems plaguing the town , leaving citizens dead under his watch including the former physician , Sam Metcalf ( . . notable character actor Henry Jones ) and a lovable neighbor , Margaret Hollins ( Mary Carver ) , who welcomed him to the neighborhood without bias towards his being an outsider . The beautiful irony of Jennings having arachnophobia provides quite an entertaining template for the character having to face his fears in the climax as he will have no other choice but to battle the spider responsible for the terror striking the area . Harley Jane Kozak really has good chemistry with Daniels , portraying his wife , Molly , who attempts to rescue him from his fear of spiders . John Goodman steals his scenes as an exterminator , a know-it-all who is often mistaken in regards to the locations of spiders and his knowledge about them . . Goodman's girth often engulfs the screen . Stuart Pankin has the role as Sheriff , Lloyd Parsons , who makes it quite known that he doesn't like outsiders intruding upon his town as if they own the place . Mark L Taylor has the role of Jerry Manley , the photographer who gets bitten by the Tarantula , his casket of which the spider hitches a ride . A very accomplished film for a first-time director , it's quite obvious that Spielberg had an influence during the production of ARACHNOPHOBIA , his own signatures ( . . such as the suburban , successful family whose picturesque life is disrupted by something sinister ) are recognizable . Sure to get under the skin , the shower scene where a spider crawls down a girls body , and the spider swarm at the end as they besiege Jennings home . Also , I think another success for the filmmakers was making the giant cob webs as eerie as the deadly spiders that made them .
Laura's ( Belén Rueda ) beloved HIV positive adopted son , Simón ( Roger Príncep ) disappears and if she wishes to find him , will have to play a game with the ghosts of children she once knew as a little orphan girl , the victims of a secret tragedy . While those around her consider Laura's quest for the location of her son , through some idea that ghost children know where he's located , a lost cause , she will do whatever it takes to find him . Carlos ( Fernando Cayo ) , a doctor , tries , to no avail , convincing his wife Laura to abandon a foolhardy search that so often yields few answers . Yet , as she pursues Simón's whereabouts , horrifying truths about those children she once knew surface . This film follows Laura through the clues the children leave behind . The setting is at an orphanage , the very one Laura once lived as a child , for which she hoped to raise mentally handicapped kids . I guess the R-rating is for a minor few displays of disturbing images ( . . such as a key character's facial damage after being hit by a truck , a fingernail removal , & a broken bone protruding from the skin of Laura's leg ) which is a shame because this is actually a rather harmless ghost story regarding a woman's endless search for the son she adores . Dogged and determined , despite how others try to convince her that the mission was fleeting , Laura's pursuit brings such an emotional depth to this , and kudos goes to the performance of Rueda as the mother . I think Rueda brings that key mixture of motherly paternal love and warmth definitely needed and it's important that we care about this search . . the film hinges on our desire for her being rewarded . Although , the reward she receives may not be the way we would intend it to be , in the traditional sense , but it certainly packs an emotional wallop thanks in part to Rueda . Cayo , as the suffering husband who wishes to find their son , yet soon loses faith of ever finding him , while trying to heal , I think does a good job at pointing out how most of us , looking at the situation from a more grounded realistic view , would probably react to Laura's demand to continue . The film shows the influence of Guillermo del Toro as director Bayona obviously received a few pointers in the style because he has a visual command that beautifully swept me off my feet in how he photographs the film . This will try more impatient viewers because Bayona's film is a slow-burner , building the mystery , as layers are unpeeled . There's a creepy sequence with a medium , trying to find what is plaguing the orphanage , that I thought works really well , summoning the spirit of " The Changeling " . Other than the orphanage itself , the director makes good use of a lighthouse and beach-front as well .
Franco's take on the Bram Stoker novel with Christopher Lee again portraying Count Dracula , except this production ( . . a meager one at best with Franco admitting in a recent interview that he had to front his own financing to finish the film ! ) is completely sub-dued from the acting to the presentation . Director Jesús Franco does exploit an obsession of his in this film . . his love for the use of a zooming camera lens . During moments of dialogue Jesús Franco loves for his camera's eye to hone in on the faces of his casts , and even lingers on the mouth of Dracula as his fangs become slightly visible . I do think that this technique can work , but , to be honest , Jesús Franco does tend to go overboard a bit . It does seem like he has inferior equipment . . his camera , at times , seems to have the jitters , and the focus & color occasionally obscure . But , I liked this film much more than I thought I would . I love the opening sequence with an elder Dracula " welcoming " Harker into his decadent castle . Dracula looks overwrought from the dead atmosphere of his ancestral home , where he belovedly speaks , with passion and authority , about his proud family and how they fought and won wars bravely . Yet , in that castle he remains , and I think that you can see it through Lee , a relic of a begone era . The blood of those in a completely different place far removed from home , will bring the youth he seeks . Like always , Lee can merely open a door and you stand at attention . That whole scene in his castle , before venturing off to seek fresh victims elsewhere nearby Van Helsing's mental institution , is probably my favorite of the film because it brings something different to the oft-filmed character , establishing this version of Dracula performed by Lee , as more than just a blood-sucker . If only Franco had been able to afford better special effects . He does use the location of Barcelona impeccably . I would've enjoyed a better confrontation between Lee and Lom , but to see them ( . . along with Kinski and Miranda ) in the same film , even if they were often filmed separately , is enough pleasure for me . For a long period of time in my youth , I only knew Lom primarily as Chief Inspector Charles Dreyfus , the constant recipient of aggravation from Peter Seller's bumbling Inspector Clouseau . Since watching more 60's & early 70's horror , I've come to find Lom an icon of the genre . He can hold you captive with his mere presence , just as Lee . He's not as much a theatrical actor as this authoritative , commanding figure who draws you to him like a moth to the flame . I didn't mind Franco's constant zooming towards Lom's face because he has always delivers something interesting with his Van Helsing character . Lom is formidable and this really bodes well because there is a good portion of the film where Lee's Count is away from the screen . I think , in order to hold the viewer's interest ( . . or those who want to see Lee all the time ) , it's important to cast other interesting actors . This leads me to Klaus Kinski . I have to admit that I wasn't expecting this type of interpretation from Kinski as the often dementedly performed character of Renfield . Klaus , I don't think , ever finishes a complete sentence , preferring to show the terror on Renfield's face as he slowly awaits the arrival of Dracula . Even within a padded cell , you can see , through the facial mannerisms and hypnotic blue eyes of Kinski , Renfield's plight . Unlike past interpretations of Renfield , Kinski doesn't deliver deranged monologues about the Count , but channels the horrors of what he knows through silence ( . . often seen staring , almost mime-like in how he makes for the window of his cell as it faces the mansion with which his enemy resides ) and gesture . Soledad Miranda's exotic beauty is definitely put to good use as Lucy , Dracula's chosen source of blood . Fred Williams , as Lucy's fiancé Jonathan Harker , and Jack Taylor as Mina's fiancé Quincy Morris , are more or less secondary characters . They're important as vampire hunters , urged by Van Helsing to stop Dracula before he can harm other innocents . The lovely Maria Rohm ( Venus in Furs ) has the role of Mina , but she is used mainly on screen to scream when she sees Dracula .
Four pirates ( . . labeled " wreckers " for they draw ships with light crashing into the shore to pillage them ) ruthlessly rape and assault two blond young women as they walk to shore , appearing from the darkness in nothing but gowns . Soon the Captain ( John Rico ) , already insane , is haunted by ghostly apparitions of those two girls they left for dead on the shore . Yet , somehow , the girls survive fending off yet another proposed attack by the pirates , making their way to the " haunted ruins " which holds a demonic presence , imprisoned by two guardians who can give them the power they seek in weakness needed for revenge . I really enjoyed this one , even if I was often left with my jaw open wondering what the hell was going on . I couldn't help but snicker when the twins make to the haunted ruins and are greeted by the female clown . Many would probably throw their hands up at that , but I couldn't help but love such an audacious move by Rollin to throw a modern image inside a film representing pirates . I loved the brothel pub hybrid with patrons fondling the gals as our clairvoyant Madam plays the piano when she isn't foretelling doom . I like how over-the-top the pirates are , even Tina ( . . let me stop for a moment and gain my composure ) who Rollin films in nearly every scene naked , delighting in her devilish ways . Take , for instance , the Captain who lifts his mug to drink with beer spilling out all over himself , or Bosco ( Willy Braque ) , always morose until he begins to trash the fisherman's bar and brothel . The film is Joelle Coeur for me . There's one image I'll always have to summon every now and then . Rollin's camera eyeballs a naked Coeur with her arms stretched to the heavens after their conquest and corruption of the innocence of two girls who had just lost everything . The camera slowly pulls away as she stands , enjoying every minute of the atrocities committed . How Coeur can't help herself as her men ravage their bodies , tearing their already shredded gowns , in a state of ecstasy . She craves this type of cruel activity , embellishes the evil they partake in . The wrecking is child's play compared to the rape and destruction of innocence . I liked how Rollin gets his skeleton and bat in the film , by using them as " decoration " in the brothel-pub . Oh , and I loved that winged creature statue in the brothel-pub as well ( . . I believe Rollin shoots one of the girl's apparitions next to it when they haunt the Captain ) . The ruins left me in a state of bliss , particularly how Rollin shoots the female clown guiding the girls to the " crypt-watcher " ( . . he looks like a Russian czar , or something ) down those massive steps . And , when the girls remove their shirts making their way to the prisoner's cell to release him . . One of my favorite techniques established by Rollin is how he follows his female beauties , either naked or clothed under a gown or shirt ( . . just long enough to cover their crotch ) , holding a candle to guide themselves , as they make their way to a specific destination . I also liked how the final sequence ends with water engulfing the main characters . Oh , and my favorite scene , besides the bedroom sequence where the Captain is fondling a bird he'd later rip into as Coeur slowly gets naked , is a certain character's death as a piano plays on it's own .
Howard Trent ( Hayden Rorke ) , hideous face with creepy white eyes , whose cane taps the floor loudly wherever he walks , suspects his wife , Irene ( Barbara Stanwyck ) of adultery due to her " sleep-talking " embracing her gentleman caller within the realm of blissful fantasy . He suspects that his attorney , and confident , Barry Moreland ( the dashing Robert Taylor , always the kind of leading man with the ability to conceal whether he's trustworthy or carrying malicious intent ) of being her lover . The third party of the story is private investigator George Fuller , hired by the insanely jealous Howard to follow Irene . When Howard dies in an explosion within his private laboratory , Irene is haunted by dreams / nightmares depicting her dream love ( Lloyd Bochner ) , Howard's interference on her encounters with him and various places that she is taken by her fantasy-man which feel so incredibly & vividly real . With Trent's hesitant assistance ( he carries a look of concern for Irene as if wondering whether or not she should see a shrink ) , Irene seeks answers to the riddles of her dreams and does indeed find that places she was taken to by her dream lover are real , but unlike the way she saw them the night before . Does Irene truly experience real encounters with a real man , or is she truly completely bonkers ? Through the wizardry of director William Castle and writer Robert Bloch , this wonderfully campy delight runs the gamut of twists and surprises . They use dreams / nightmares as a psychological tool to craft their tale and we follow Irene's journey through the unusual crisis she faces . I thought Rorke's Howard was perfectly sinister . . they really dress him up as a creepy intruder to Irene's serene , while also strange , encounters with her ideal man . Taylor , as I mentioned above , again appears sympathetic to Irene's cause , showing that he would like to believe that what she experiences is true . The third party , Lloyd Bochner has a pivotal role in this flick . . his character is the one who leads Irene through all the bizarre scenarios that occur in the supposed dream-world they inhabit . One particular sequence , my favorite of the film , has Bochner's dream man and Irene associated in an eerie ceremony , in a chapel , where the parties involved ( priest , pianist & witnesses ) are plastic mannequins , interrupted by Howard . The film opens splendidly with a montage of images with the deep resonant voice of the narrator asking us , " What are your dreams " What do they mean ? What do you know about the secret world you visit when you sleep ? " It goes on for minutes and I can imagine the groaning of many having to sit through it . But , I thought it was hokey , well-intentioned fun . Babs ' histrionics might make her devoted fans cringe , and her character is a bit naive , but she's always a pleasure to watch . I've read that many compare this film to Babs to Crawford's final role in TROG , but I think that's way off base . If you love William Castle and know what to expect ( . . gorgeous B & W moody cinematography , a plethora of red herrings piled on each other , schlocky & gimmicky narrative ) , this should be right up your alley .
No mistake about it , this film is a daring one to make . We essentially see this 13 year old girl , howbeit a bright , " smart way beyond her years " drug and torture a 33 year old pedophile for an hour and a half or so . This film cleverly dares to show this girl actually out-dueling , psychologically , a man who has wooed quite a few teenagers . To have an entire film set in one general location for most of the way and have these two hold our interest is an amazing feat . This film has something to say and is clearly an indictment on pedophilia and it's damages . For a film to turn the tables in another direction where the predator becomes the prey is quite a challenge . I think this film succeeds . Casting is certainly key . Patrick Wilson really is a perfect choice for the role of Jeff , the photographer who can flash his profession in the face of pretty young things with the throwaway exuberance of those " possible future models " expected . Patrick's frat-boy looks and calm reserve really fit right for this pedophile . He looks like a perfectly normal man who we'd have a hard time believing could be such a monster when all to his lonesome gazing at a computer screen probing away on the internet superhighway for that chance to get that young virginal lay . But , Ellen Page is the revelation here . She absolutely dominates the screen with this allure director David Slade visually captures with his camera . You instantly believe her as " Hayley " and her transformation from what Jeff believes she is to who she REALLY is , this is startling to behold . She is able to toy with him and see through him . Understanding who Jeff really is through carefully studied research makes this film quite fascinating as it develops . She knows all his secrets and he is ultimately at her mercy . What TRULY motivates Hayley's vengeance , and how does it involve a missing girl and Jeff's former lover ? These questions are answered and we see who Jeff really is after Hayley gets done with him .
After a " successful " skin grafting experimental plastic surgery ( using tissue not only for outside work , but inside as well using skin from the thigh ) , innocent , sweet Rose ( Marilyn Chambers who is actually not bad in a rare dramatic role ; she still looks incredibly sexy and bares her breasts often , however ) has a mysterious appendage that pops out from a " pouch " on her arm pit . This appendage likes to suck blood from unknowing victims and is the only nutritious substance Rose can digestively hold down . Rose has constant cravings and those she attacks become bloodthirsty , stark-raving maniacs whose mouth splatter green pus . Soon the entire city of Montreal , Quebec has reached epidemic-proportions with the military having to step in to control the problem . There seems to be no cure available except death to all that have the " plague " ( after a while , the diseased crazies go into a coma and die ) . Rose's boyfriend Hart ( Frank Moore ) tries to find her once she breaks from the clinic after attacking Dr . Keloid ( Howard Ryshpan ) . . the plastic surgeon who worked on her . Poor Mindy ( Susan Roman ) offers Rose a place to stay , but unknowingly has the very one responsible for the outbreak of madness . You watch wondering when the impulses for blood will take effect leaving Rose with only one alternative and that is to attack her only real friend in the world . Will Mindy survive ? Will Hart find Rose ? The tragic part about the film is that there's really only one way to cease the plague sweeping the city ( . . and before it reaches the entire country ) and that is to eliminate the model source . . the queen bee . . and that is extinguishing Rose . The film is a bit raw ( Cronenberg was still honing his skills ) , but it's clear with this icky epidemic thriller he was on his way to greater things . The unpleasant premise of this thing inside Rose sucking blood might be ridiculous , but , at the same time , it really gets under the skin . It seems like Cronenberg could make these spine-tingling grotesques in his sleep .
A burned out detective , Inspector Tellini ( Giancarlo Giannini ) contemplating the thought of turning in his resignation , resides over the bloody investigation where a psychopath , donning tan skin-tight gloves , a large hat and overcoat , is paralyzing female victims by throttling an acupuncture needle into the back of their necks having them experience the agony of death alive and awake . These murders are linked to a black-mailing scam regarding a stud under the employ of the boss of a health spa who convinces clientèle to sleep with him while another takes photographs . When the husband of his murdered nympho wife goes after her adulterous lover , Tellini will have to find both of them before it gets really out of hand . Who is the murderer of the female clientèle photographed and certain women who are involved heavily in the black-mailing scam ? If that wasn't enough to burden Tellini , he finds that the killer had videotaped him making love to his wife in the bedroom of their apartment . . which insures the detective that his wife's life could be in danger . Well paced , excitingly photographed giallo entry has an interesting enough premise especially in how the killer murders his victims with them well aware of what is happening to them and who it is doing them in . The plot unfolds nicely even if the end result is strictly so-so . Giannini is quite good as the worn-out cop beaten down by the case he's working on . Some lovely ladies in the cast including Barbara Bouchet ( as the nympho / first victim ) , Barbara Bach ( as an employee at the spa knee-deep in trouble for her involvement in the black-mailing scam ) , Stefania Sandrelli ( as the detective's beautiful and loyal wife ) & Claudine Auger ( as the main culprit of the black-mailing scam and boss who runs the health spa ) . The film's main problem is the twist regarding the identity isn't too difficult to figure out once certain suspects are eliminated earlier on . The murders , in this case , are quite potent and shocking , especially in how the killer likes to plunge his knife into the torsos of the victims after they are paralyzed . The title refers to the method a wasp commits when it paralyzes and disembowels a tarantula as it relates to the psycho's killing style .
Atypical Bogdanovich feature about the passage of time in a life of pimp , Ben Gazzara , ( well cast ) in Singapore . Denholm Elliot brings a very good , melancholic performance as a accountant who comes to Singapore every year to work out the finances of Gazzara's Visa boss . Bogdanovich himself portrays a government man who uses Gazzara's pimping powers for Vietnam soldier relaxation ( among other things such as framing anyone the government deems as a threat ) . Very interesting and unpredictable , Gazzara is able to keep a mystery ( and sadness ) about his character as he often keeps things subtle when other men might react with hostility , but seems able to garner respect from everyone he meets . The film has a freshness about it because of the mostly Asian cast revolving around Gazzara . I think it's clear Gazzara desires to keep America away , but American history ( such as the Vietnam war , the Nixon administration , the changing of Singapore as time goes by ) seems to rear it's ugly head often interfering with with that desire . Gazzara also has to contend with the Chinese mafia who certainly have problems with his success in prostitution .
Just magnificent psychological tale of suspense regarding a serial killer on the loose , who targets women with imperfections ( one was lame , another was simple-minded ) . The constable ( James Bell ) warns Professor Warren ( George Brent ) that he has traced the killer's whereabouts to the Warren estate and to keep an eye open for anything suspicious . Helen Capel ( Dorothy McGuire , who is excellent ) has been mute since the horrible house fire which killed her parents . A new physician in town , Dr . Parry ( Kent Smith ) believes the condition is psychological and that Helen must confront what has caused her silence . He believes there's help in Boston which can cure Helen's ailment . . Parry is also in love with Helen and vice versa . But , Helen is indeed a woman that the killer might target as she is hired help for the ailing stepmother of the Professor , Mrs . Warren ( Ethel Barrymore , also quite good in a rather underwritten role ) and so her life could be in danger as long as she remains at the estate's spooky mansion where a possible killer might be lurking . We see , when Helen returned from a movie house where the killer strangled the lame female , that someone is watching her hidden in darkness . Director Siodmak has the camera close in on the killer's crazed , widening eye as it peers at the next chosen victim . So we are informed by the eye staring at Helen ( . . with the bonus imagined face of Helen without a mouth inside the pupil of the killer's eye ) she is to be chosen as the next possible victim setting up the creepy story within the dark , rain-drenched mansion where shadow and light converge . A possible suspect might be the Professor's brother Steve ( Gordon Oliver ) who arrived home from Paris just as the murders started . Blanche ( Rhonda Fleming ) is the Professor's secretary , his former flame , now secretly Steve's lover . Mrs . Oates ( Elsa Lanchester , who is a hoot and easily steals every scene she's in ) , the maid , can't resist taking a nip of brandy when she can sneak a bottle from the Professor's cellar . She keeps having to close an open window which had been shut . . this is Siodmak's way of informing us that the killer is within the house . Mr . Oates ( Rhys Williams ) is the man who helps fetch supplies among other duties on the grounds of the Warren estate . He'll have to fetch some ether as the matriarch Warren falls ill often passing out when rattled in her weakened condition . Mrs . Warren constantly warns Helen to leave the premises for her own safety . . she seems to feel that danger awaits Helen in the mansion . With Mrs . Oates drunk as a skunk , soon a murder within the cellar has Helen fearing for her life as it seems most are gone from the estate . . Parry gets a call from a sick boy , Mr . Oates is off to fetch ether & someone is murdered while two suspects might have something to do with it as Helen must somehow survive on her own . This film has that kind of building dread , and great looking , atmospheric B & W photography one craves when looking for a classic Gothic thriller . The story regarding how a mute , who can not cry for help when the killer is revealed , is perfect within this mansion setting . Using candlelight when certain characters walk into the darkened cellar ( where a murder takes place ) , Siodmak shows his excellence at creating tension . You just know that the cellar is the perfect place for a killer to hide with the ability to catch a victim off-guard when they have their back turned . Also , the spiral staircase of the title is served well thanks to the moving camera and how Siodmak lights it . Just a wonderful little creeper with McGuire in a winning role as she must convey various emotions without uttering a word .
Brilliant trash from Russ Meyer about three volatile go-go dancers who live hard and race their cars harder . Their leader is Varla ( Tura Satana ) , a benevolent sort of mad dame who loves pushing the boundaries of bad . She decides to kill an innocent man just out to test-drive his car for speed time . She is always looking for competition when it comes to racing , and this young man produces the seed to sprout that urge . He has with him a foxy young dame named Linda ( Sue Bernard ) for whom Varla just has to carry along ( she's bi-sexual , but is kidnapping her for kicks because that's just how bad she is . . always looking for something a little more dangerous ) . Varla is " supported " by lover Rosie ( Haji ) who is pretty much her servant girl for she even lights the woman's cigarettes . But , Billie ( Lori Williams . . who is absolutely scorching ) is often a thorn in Varla's side because she challenges her authority and is quite a lousy drunk . Varla sees an opportunity for monetary gain in a crusty old man , crippled in a wheel chair ( Stuart Lancaster ) who has his stash hidden some place . She will scheme her way through the family to find the loot using means at her disposal such as her figure and possible sexual favors by going after older son Kirk ( Paul Trinka ) who admits he's weak when lust passes by . Billie sets her sights on the retarded , muscular son ( Dennis Busch ) who has a specific irritable weakness when trains pass . . something about them scars his psyche . Will Varla find the old man's money ? What will happen to poor Linda , who tries so often to get away but seems to never quite make it ? Will anyone survive with Varla always scheming to find that cash ? Ultra-violence prevails in Meyer's flick which is interesting because he allows Varla to be such a tyrant and seemingly indestructible when battling men . She swallows the weak whole and dominates all the characters . She sets her furious sights on something and doesn't think twice about diving after no matter what it is . Men presented in the film are weak and they seem almost knee-bent to the lusts they carry . The film has wonderful , slick beatnik dialogue and the way the camera shoots the characters is excellent . I loved how Meyer shoots the women behind the steering wheel . We can easily tell that they are merely in a superficial concoction with film crew-members moving the fake car with the girls inside , but this provides Meyer with a unique way of lensing their expressions of joy and malice as they race each other and chosen victims who have no idea what kind of dames they are dealing with .
Private detective John March ( John Terry ) is hired by a beautiful client , Claire ( Jane Sibbett ) concerned about her husband Charles Dexter Ward ( Chris Sarandon , yet again perfectly cast ) who has removed himself from her life almost completely , secluding himself from their cottage miles away in his ancestral home of Joseph Curwen , a person known for toying with witchcraft . Encountering a curiously declining Charles , speaking with an unusual grammar and an unusual Asian who speaks no English , within the Curwen home , March and Claire know something is amiss . Claire , truly worried about her husband's mental health , agrees to have Charles committed . Searching through the underground catacombs beneath Curwen's home , the mysteries regarding bringing the dead back to life are discovered . But , not just notes and written papers acknowledging this , but pits containing " failed experiments " revealing a monstrous secret hidden away from civilization . Yet , something is on the rampage throughout Rhode Island eating residents . When a suitcase carrying bones is opened by March , he truly understands who Charles really is . . . or , more importantly , who is carrying on a charade pretending to be Charles . Shamefully neglected ( . . I myself only found out about it thanks to an Internet pal from Belgium ) gem has to be considered one of the best horror films adapted from a Lovecraft tale . The gore effects of the monsters in the pits within the catacombs , bodies " re-birthed " , and two bodies being " spliced together " are amazing to behold thanks to good ole fashioned make-up wizardry . Old school special effects , made by the hands of craftsman , are certainly appreciated by yours truly , and director Dan O'Bannon brings to life quite a stunning horror film . Not just the effects , but how he photographs the film through his energetic camera-work , smooth story-telling , and a wonderful unveiling of the mystery as it builds ( . . what " Charles " was up to , hidden away as a private dick learns of the horrifying details unfolding everything to the viewer ) inside the darkened tunnels where you never know what lurks around the corner or in the next room , O'Bannon deserves more respect from fans . . this is a film that should be re-discovered and appreciated . Great finale in a padded cell where March confronts " Charles " and faces grave danger , just adds to the grisly goodies of this superb thriller . And , Richard Band's score only adds to the film's many attributes . For once , I don't think Lovecraft wasn't spinning in his grave . .
A prehistoric dinosaur , Rhedosauras , is awakened from it's North Pole icy prison by atom explosion testings , and follows the Arctic current to NYC destroying whatever lies in it's path along the way . Scientist Tom Nesbitt ( Paul Hubschmid ) who survives an avalanche which kills his fallen colleague , tries to tell others of the creature he saw and is disbelieved by everyone proclaiming his story as a momentary lapse of reason during a traumatic occurrence . Nesbitt tries to convince Paleontologist Thurgood Elson ( Cecil Kellaway ) of what he saw , and is yet again rejected , but finds an ally in the professor's assistant , Lee ( Paula Raymond ) who persuades him to seek out a surviving eyewitness who can corroborate his story . When he does , finally convincing Elson that there might just be a living dinosaur ( . . and such a scientific discovery worth seeking after ) , they will attempt to persuade Colonel Jack Evans ( Kenneth Tobey ) to keep watch over the coastlines for the beast could surface at any moment risking the lives of innocent Americans . When the Rhedosauras attacks a Massachusettes lighthouse , among other damaged wreckage along the way , Evans will humor Nesbitt and Elson , despite how his superiors and peers might react at such a request , and send a small vessel into the oceanic depths with Elson himself hoping to find the dinosaur under water . He does , and with a price . Soon the Rhedosauras surfaces NYC and causes panic and destruction to buildings , vehicles , and people with civilians running for their very lives as the beast moves through the streets on a rampage . When Evans orders his military men to fire upon the beast , he doesn't know that the Rhedosauras ' tissue is diseased . . when anyone , including Evan's men , come in contact with the dinosaur's blood a viral plague causes major sickness and death . Nesbitt believes that the only means of destroying the dinosaur without spreading the virus into the air , is through a radioactive isotope blasted through a wound inside it's bloodstream , disintegrating the tissue . Ray Harryhausen's first film on his own is a must-see for creature feature fans . The dinosaur attacks a lighthouse , takes a ship underwater , eats a police man , destroys buildings , and rips apart a roller coaster in the harrowing finale . As always , Tobey , although in not as lucrative a role as he would be in " It Came from Beneath the Sea " , shines once again as the reliable pillar of knowledge and strength as the military colonel . As is a staple in monster movies ( . . well the good ones anyway ) Hubschmid is the model handsome , extremely likable heroic scientist with charm and manners , and the lovely Paula Raymond fills the usual role of beautiful scientist who motivates , assists , and falls in love with him . Kellaway is simply delightful as the engaging paleontologist with a glowing smile and cheerful attitude , which makes his fate all the more sad because he's such a lovable character . I have always felt that a creature feature , a really solid one , needs a good cast to match the effects of Harryhausen , and " The Beast from . . " is such a movie . Thankfully , the characters are well developed and seem to know what they're talking about thanks to swell writing and dialogue that isn't too cerebral , yet smart enough to make the plot believable . A serious approach and a superb creature causing some major damage to New York City really raise this above the other films that would follow . Along with " Them ! " , " The Beast from . . " is one of the all-time greats in the monster movie genre . I'm a major fan of stop-motion effects and I think others who are will lap this film up . It has stunningly realized f / x for a movie made in ' 53 such as the lighthouse's destruction and when that poor cop is chomped on , eventually gulped . I read elsewhere that the Godzilla remake from Emmerich favors this film more than the Tokyo fire-breather and , after finally watching " The Beast from . . " I definitely concur .
An out-of-work actor , Jake Scully ( Craig Wasson , quite good in a rare starring role ) , struggling after a broken relationship and a career marred by his claustrophobia , is allowed to stay in the fine , palatial home of another actor , Sam Bouchard ( Gregg Henry ) . Jake is a certified peeper and Sam introduces him to a gorgeous woman across the way who likes to flaunt her naked body in front of an open window . Jake frequently peeps at her during his stay , but never imagines that this woman's life would be in jeopardy . An " Indian " who works for the satellite company , repairing a dish on the woman's property , spies and follows her . The woman's name is Gloria ( Deborah Shelton ) and Jake takes a particular interest in her himself , but wishes ultimately to protect her from the Indian . In a long , marvelous sequence ( which is , in my opinion , some of De Palma's best work as a director ) , Jake follows Gloria to the mall and beach apartments worried for her life when he spots the Indian , in his Ranger , right behind her . At the beach apartment , Gloria was awaiting a certain someone . . when he doesn't show , she heads to the beach only to have her purse stole by the Indian as Jake pursues him . Once they make it to a tunnel , Jake freezes in fear because of his paralyzing vertigo . The Indian gets away with a pass key that can open Gloria's home . This sets off a harrowing , and ultimately haunting , sequence where the Indian enters Gloria's home , taking her jewelry as Jake looks on in a state of horror . Instead of calling the police , Jake tries to play hero with Gloria being killed by the Indian thanks in part to a nasty use of a drill . Jake couldn't help her because the house's dog attacks him . This haunting aspect looms over Jake for he could not heroically ride in like a knight in shining armour and save the woman he cares for . This set-piece is the catalyst for the rest of the film as Jake desperately desires to redeem himself after the loss of Gloria . This entails a porn star named Holly Body ( Melanie Griffith , who is good in her short screen time ) who may've played a part in the murder and didn't even know it . And , a possible revelation might prove that Jake was playing a part in a very dangerous plot not of his doing , but because of his faults . I fell in love with De Palma's camera-work in this film . Not just that , but the amazing editing work and the twisty story which kept me on edge . I was repulsed at how De Palma unapologetically and blatantly rips off Hitchcock , but what he does with the themes from VERTIGO & REAR WINDOW do make up some wonderful visual set-pieces . But , this film is the anti-thesis almost of REAR WINDOW as the hero isn't able to save the woman he loves because he was simply too far away , while also oh so close . Using the paralyzing shock of vertigo and claustrophobia plays the most important role in this film because Jake is damaged by this . It affects his life in such traumatic ways . De Palma has a field day with the pornography business , submerging and propelling the film often into sleaze . Dennis Franz has a small memorable role as Jake's film director . The " Relax-Don't Do It " porno video is a highlight .
A moment in the life of a folk singer , Arlo ( Arlo Guthrie ) who spends time trying to make it in the music biz by doing the bar scene while also frequenting at a hippie commune / restaurant derived from a former Catholic church . His many numerous acquaintances are a major part of this story as we get to know those who hang around the commune . Arlo also pays visits to his ailing father , Woody . We see the humor , tragedy , and response towards living the hippie lifestyle . Alice ( Pat Quinn , who is simply delightful ) runs the kitchen at the commune often tired of her man , Ray's ( James Broderick ) constant decisions to bring more and more off the street for her to cook for . She's the surrogate mother for those that choose this way of living , but often yearns for more . The tragic element of the film is Shelly ( Michael McClanathan ) , a young man trying endlessly to kick a nasty drug habit and loved almost as a son by Ray & Alice . We see in a love-making scene that Alice also cares for him sexually . They try their damnedest to keep him off the pipe , but seeing the agony of that decision leads us to believe it's only a matter of time before he caves in . Through Arlo's narration , we get some witty interludes such as the " littering " sequence where Deputy Obie ( William Obanhein ) obsessively goes completely by the rules in exact , hilarious detail . The sequence where Arlo goes in for his numerous tests to see if he's fit for Vietnam is also quite funny ( in that sequence , there's a hilarious cameo from a young E Emmet Walsh as a fast-talking test-giver ) . But , the film depicts the characters and dialogue with such richness , intelligence , and heart . . there isn't a false note amongst the cast . The film's subject matter and portrait of this lifestyle rings true . The narration is marvelous and the film keeps that tone pretty much throughout .
Unrelenting suspensor about a woman so tormented by her nightmares ( after losing a child stillborn when her boyfriend Richard hit a tree ) , she's willing to try anything including black mass ritual performed by a Satanic cult introduced to her by a neighbor , Mary . Her sister , Barbara has tried to get her psychiatric help from Dr . Gordon , but Richard sees this as a silly waste of time . Jane's trauma is so disorienting , she believes a psychopath has emerged from her nightmares and manifested himself into reality . Shades of " Rosemary's Baby " is obviously present throughout the film particularly the photography of the black mass rituals , but they are none the less chilling to watch . I think what worked so well for me was the idea of this poor , frightened woman not be able to separate herself from this demented stalker with blue , piercing eyes . The film's location plays greatly into the style of the piece , but Martino's surreal lens really creates this foreboding that gets under the skin as characters { the Satanic High Priest , especially } literally grab toward the viewer . The camera loves to slide up and down Fenech's wonderfully silky body { one of the best scenes in the film is a steamy shower shot up her body as she wets herself with only a shirt on } , but it's her performance as the paranoid , nearly crazed Jane that really sells this film . Hilton is good enough given very limited screen time .
Substance D and how the drug has caused societal collapse with nearly everyone experimenting ( . . or totally hooked ) on it . Our main character is Bob Arctor ( Keanu Reeves , perfectly cast ) who has a " split-brain phenomenon " where the two hemispheres of his brain ( the right and the left ) are " competing " with each other . He is supposed to be undercover , but is actually studying himself ! Arctor is a tragic victim because in dwelling with these drug-induced people he's narcing , he has himself fallen under the destructive spell of the Substance D drug . This is where , through the marvelous animated process presented , Arctor battling the disorienting and conflicting thoughts . Through the artform of the film , we can properly see how the drug effects the user in a hallucinatory way . Charles Freck ( Rory Cochrane ) is the extreme example of the devastating effect the drug can cause in the opening minutes as he calls James Barris ( Robert Downey Jr . ; he's nothing short of brilliant in this film ) for assistance . Freck can not seem to remove these ugly green bugs crawling throughout his body . We later understand , through Barris , that the drug is causing these bugs to appear . We see a different form of this ugly vision in Arctor when he watches Barris ( and his other druggie pal , Ernie , portrayed by Woody Harrelson ) shape into a bug . Winona Ryder is the fifth important character of the piece because Arctor is her boyfriend , yet the running joke is she won't put out for him . She seems to be deep into dangerous operations thanks to the Substance D drug , but perhaps Donna ( Ryder's character's name in the film ) has a greater role than anyone can realize regarding the drug . But , ultimately , I look at this film as showing one particular tragic victim , Arctor , who is being used by others to try and thwart an overwhelming drug . There's a U-turn this film takes towards the end I never seen coming which will use Arctor yet again , but this time his role ( he'll be exploited with his barely functioning brain ) will be infiltrating a certain place facilitating the manufacturing , growing , and distribution of the drug . . by an organization which adds just the right disturbing touch to this " paranoia-future " science-fiction film .
A handsome sociopath named John Harrington ( Stephen Forsyth , perfectly cast ) , stuck in a bad marriage with a wife who holds her fortune over his head like a badge of honor , enjoys murdering females before they wed . Taking place in Paris , John has a breeding ground to work from since marriages occur frequently there . Only adding to that is the fact that he operates a wedding boutique founded by the mother he adored . . John has the provided extra motivation to slay . Disturbed by this calling of his name , after each kill John gets closer to seeing the face of she who haunts him . Does he really want to see this , though ? Using a hatchet as his weapon of slaughter , John incinerates the bodies in his flower hot-house . His wife's vicious overbearingness only presses the madness underneath his calm exterior . An inspector ( Jesús Puente ) , on the case to find who is killing all the brides-to-be , hounds John passing off little verbal jabs poking about the idea that he's a prime suspect . To add to John's paranoia is the ghost of the wife he kills and buries in the hot-house flower garden . It seems her presence looms over him like a shadow and she associates ( . . and is seen ) by those around John . He's also " visited " by a young boy devastated by the sight of his mother collapsing after someone attacked her . We ought to know who that boy is and the fact that this visual horror might've lent a hand in John's descent into killing . Bava's a master at creating lucid nightmares and images that haunt and remain with you . There's a scene every Hitchcock fan would love after John kills his wife . After completing this task , before he could take her body from top of the stairs the inspector comes knocking at his door . The missus's dead arm is dripping blood on the carpet below as John tries to work his nemesis out of the room . And , how he evades the question about hearing a woman screaming from the inspector is also very ingenious . Bava also lenses a fascinating sequence with John alone as he caresses his mannequins . They are lifeless , but he doesn't seem to care . . John holds them with this kind of deep cherish relishing the silence that exudes from within the room . Also , the way Bava photographs the hatchet as if providing a lustful allure . . it's as if the camera embraces this weapon of execution . I mean just watch how John holds the hatchet in his hand . . it's like holding the woman you love . Lastly , Bava's decision to have us be a part of John's madness and despair is another important creepy part that makes this whole film quite an experience . This is an amazing piece of film-making . . a truly bizarre masterwork of genius .
